legislation_id,l0
pText,"Nearly four million Americans reside in the United States territories of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Mariana Islands. As Americans, they deserve just as much coverage from federal health programs as everyone else and to have their voices heard in Washington.\nHowever, compared to the fifty states and the District of Columbia, the Medicaid and Medicare programs provide significantly less federal assistance to residents of the U.S. territories. While the federal government provides Medicaid funding to states on an open-ended basis, and matches state spending based on need, it caps the total annual health care funding for the territories and matches funds at an artificially low level, capped by statute. Furthermore, under current law, low-income Medicare beneficiaries residing in the territories are ineligible to receive Part D subsidies for their prescription drugs. Hospital payments do not adequately reflect the number of low-income patients treated or uncompensated care provided. This health care crisis will only grow worse when a temporary Medicaid funding increase for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands expires in September.\nThe Territories Health Equity Act of 2019 would address the immediate humanitarian needs in the territories, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and correct long-standing inequities in federal health care programs in the territories. The bill would:\n"
bulletList,["Lift the dollar cap on territories’ annual Medicaid funding", "Eliminate the artificially low federal medical assistance percentage for Medicaid", "Provide for equitable Medicaid and Medicare disproportionate share hospital payments", "Automatically enroll eligible Puerto Rico residents in Medicare Part B", "Increase funding for prescription drug coverage for low-income Medicare beneficiaries", "Ensure residents have access to health insurance coverage that is as comprehensive as the coverage available to members of Congress", "Reauthorize the Family-to-Family Health Information Centers program"]
legislation_id,10-2
h2Text,"Title I: Medicaid\n"
pText,"Section 101: Eliminates the general Medicaid funding limit (“cap”) for U.S. territories. Specifically, it sunsets the statutory cap on total Medicaid funding to Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa, beginning in fiscal year 2020.\nSection 102: Eliminates the statutory limit of 55 percent on federal matching (“federal medical assistance percentage” or “FMAP”) for Medicaid in the territories, beginning in fiscal year 2020; provides a temporary 100 percent FMAP for fiscal years 2020 and 2021.\nSection 103: Extends the authority to waive or modify Medicaid requirements currently in place for American Samoa and the Northern Mariana Islands to Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Guam. Exceptions to the waiver authority include requirements related to covering adults formerly under foster care, individuals eligible for the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and services provided in federally-qualified health centers and rural health clinics.\nSection 104: Makes the territories eligible for Medicaid disproportionate share hospital (“DSH”) payments to help cover the cost of uncompensated care, beginning in fiscal year 2020.\n"
h2Text,"Title II: Medicare\n"
h3Text,"Subtitle A: Medicare Part A (Inpatient Hospital Care)\n"
pText,"Section 201: Increases Medicare DSH payments to acute care hospitals in Puerto Rico operating under the inpatient prospective payment system, applicable to payments for covered inpatient services provided to eligible beneficiaries, beginning with fiscal year 2020.\nSection 202: Increases overall Medicare reimbursement rates for acute care hospitals in the territories. Beginning in fiscal year 2020, such hospitals would be compensated based on fiscal year 2015 costs (or fiscal year 2017 costs at the option of a hospital).\nSection 203: Extends Medicare DSH funding to hospitals in the small territories. Hospitals in Puerto Rico and the States are currently eligible to receive payments through this program but hospitals in the small territories are not.\n"
h3Text,"Subtitle B: Medicare Part B (Physician Care and Outpatient Hospital Care)\n"
pText,"Section 211: Provides automatic Medicare part B enrollment for eligible residents of Puerto Rico as well as a transition period during which automatic enrollment would be phased in and the penalty for late enrollment would be reduced.\n"
h3Text,"Subtitle C: Medicare Advantage (Part C)\n"
pText,"Section 221: Increases payments to Medicare Advantage plans in territories, beginning with 2020. Specifically, the blended benchmark component of payments to Medicare+Choice organizations for an area in a territory would be at least 80 percent of the national average of specified base payment amounts for the year for any area within the 50 States and the District of Columbia.\n"
h3Text,"Subtitle D: Medicare Part D\n"
pText,"Section 231: Increases the amount of federal funding for territories to provide prescription drug coverage to low-income Medicare beneficiaries.\nSection 232: Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to submit a report to Congress with recommendations for improving prescription drug coverage for low-income individuals in each territory, not later than February 1, 2021.\n"
h2Text,"Title III: Miscellaneous\n"
pText,"Section 301: Reduces health insurance provider fees in the territories and allows the territories to use fees collected to increase prescription drug coverage for low-income individuals and satisfy Medicaid matching requirements.\nSection 302: Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to publish on the internet, and update continually, information on the programs under Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program carried out in the territories.\nSection 303: Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to submit a report to Congress regarding the impact of the exclusion of the territories from the Affordable Care Act health insurance marketplaces, not later than February 1, 2020.\nSection 304: Allows individuals in the territories without access to employer-sponsored health insurance to enroll in coverage at least as broad as the coverage available to Members of Congress and congressional staff through the District of Columbia health insurance marketplaces. Provides for otherwise eligible individuals in the territories to receive premium assistance tax credits and cost-sharing assistance for such coverage.\nSection 305: Permanently extends the Family-to-Family Health Information Centers program (originally established under the Affordable Care Act), which is currently authorized through fiscal year 2019.\n"
legislation_id,l1
pText,"The WORK Act creates an Employee Ownership and Participation Initiative within the Department of Labor’s Employment and Training Administration (ETA).\nUnder this bill, ETA would be authorized to award grants to employee ownership and participation programs throughout the country.\nThe purpose of these employee ownership programs would be to:\n"
bulletList,["provide outreach to inform about employee ownership, business ownership succession, and employee participation;", "provide technical assistance to employees seeking to become owners or start new employee-owned businesses and to business owners considering selling to their employees; and", "provide training activities in the various aspects of employee participation."]
pText,"In pursuit of the Employee Ownership and Participation Initiative, ETA is authorized to make grants for the following activities:\n"
bulletList,["Education and outreach;", "Participation training;", "Technical assistance, including prefeasibility studies, and support for the carrying out of third party feasibility studies and preliminary business valuations; and", "Activities facilitating cooperation among employee ownership firms."]
pText,"Applicants for these grants may either be states on behalf of qualified units (units of state or local governments, state-supported institutions of higher education, and non-profit organizations) or, if a state does not apply, in the subsequent fiscal year the qualified units may apply directly to the program.\nGrant recipients shall submit annual reports on the progress they have made in expanding employee ownership and participation.\nMaximum grants are limited per recipient to $300,000 in Fiscal Year 2020; $330,000 in Fiscal Year 2021; $363,000 in Fiscal Year 2022; $399,300 in Fiscal Year 2023; and $439,200 in Fiscal Year 2024.\nMaximum funding levels are set to support a staff of four full-time equivalents and their operating expenses, including modest consulting costs, in Fiscal Year 2018 and grow thereafter by 10% annually.\nWithin 36 months of the passage of this legislation, the Department of Labor shall report to Congress on the progress of employee ownership and participation in businesses in the United States and provide a critical cost and benefit analysis of program activities.\nThe authorized appropriations for grants under the WORK Act are:\n(1) For fiscal year 2020, $3,850,000.\n(2) For fiscal year 2021, $6,050,000.\n(3) For fiscal year 2022, $8,800,000.\n(4) For fiscal year 2023, $11,550,000.\n(5) For fiscal year 2024, $14,850,000.\nThe authorized level of appropriations under the WORK Act would allow 12 employee ownership grants in Fiscal Year 2020; 22 in Fiscal Year 2021; and 31 in Fiscal Year 2022."
legislation_id,l2
pText,"This legislation would establish a U.S. Employee Ownership Bank, which would provide loan guarantees, subordinated loans, and technical assistance to employees who would like to buy their own companies through employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs) or eligible worker-owned cooperatives.\n"
h2Text,"The Legislation Will Create and Protect Decent-Paying Jobs\n"
pText,"Since January 2000, the United States has lost 4.4 million manufacturing jobs.  With just 12.8 million total manufacturing jobs, the U.S. now has less factory jobs than we had in December of 1941.\nMany of these jobs could be saved by giving employees the tools they need to own their own businesses through employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs) and eligible worker owned cooperatives.\nBroad-based employee ownership has been proven to increase employment, increase productivity, increase sales, and increase wages in the United States.  According to a Rutgers University study, broad based employee ownership boosts company productivity by 4%, shareholder return by 2% and profits by 14%.  Similar studies have shown that ESOP companies paid their hourly workers between 5 to 12 percent better than non-ESOP companies. ESOPs are half as likely to go out of business during a recession.\n"
h2Text,"This Legislation Will Expand Broad-Based Employee Ownership\n"
pText,"The U.S. Employee Ownership Bank would provide loan guarantees or subordinated loans to employee stock ownership plans or eligible worker owned cooperatives that: 1) are at least 51% employee owned; 2) allow all employees to elect the Board of Directors; and 3) allow all employees to directly participate in the decision-making process.\n"
h2Text,"This Legislation Authorizes $500 Million to Create the U.S. Employee Ownership Bank\n"
pText,"The legislation authorizes $500 million in Fiscal Year 2020 and such sums as may be necessary after that. In contrast, in 1934, Congress provided $1 billion for the creation of the U.S. Export-Import Bank to provide loan guarantees and direct loans to big businesses to create jobs through exports. In 1979, Congress authorized $300 million over 2 years to create a National Consumer Cooperative Bank to finance consumer cooperatives. The U.S. Employee Ownership Bank could preserve and create more jobs than both of these institutions combined at a fraction of the cost.\n"
legislation_id,l3
pText,"The Inclusive Prosperity Act would impose a tax of a fraction of a percent on trades of stocks, bonds, and derivatives. This Wall Street speculation fee, also known as a financial transaction tax, will raise substantial revenue from wealthy investors that can be used to make public colleges and universities tuition free and substantially reduce student debt. It will also reduce speculation and high-frequency trading that is destabilizing financial markets. During the financial crisis, Wall Street received the largest taxpayer bailout in the history of the world. Now it is Wall Street’s turn to rebuild the disappearing middle class.\nThis bill targets Wall Street investment houses, hedge funds, and other speculators. For the rare household of modest means that trades directly or through a broker, this legislation would provide an income tax credit to fully offset the speculation fee.\n"
h2Text,"Why Do We Need a Tax on Wall Street Speculation?\n"
pText,"Just over ten years ago, the greed, recklessness, and illegal behavior on Wall Street caused the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Millions of Americans lost their homes, life savings, and ability to pay for college because Wall Street speculators crashed the economy in 2008.\nDuring the financial crisis, the taxpayers of this country provided Wall Street with the largest bailout in the history of the world – $700 billion from the Treasury Department and $16 trillion in total financial assistance from the Federal Reserve.\nWhile Wall Street has fully recovered from the recession and is making record-breaking profits, half of Americans have virtually no wealth and are living paycheck to paycheck. While the top 1 percent owns more wealth than the bottom 92 percent, the typical middle class family in America has seen their net worth go down by 30 percent from 2007 to 2016. It is time for Wall Street to pay society back for the incredible damage it did – and continues to do – to the middle class of this country.\n"
h2Text,"A Tax with a Very Low Rate\n"
pText,"Under this legislation, trades would be taxed at a rate of 0.5 percent for stocks, 0.1 percent for bonds, and 0.005 percent for derivatives. This means, for example, that a trade of $1,000 in stocks would be subject to a tax of $5. A trade of $1,000 in swaps or other derivatives would be subject to a tax of five cents.\n"
h2Text,"Making Our Economy Safer\n"
pText,"Even at such low rates, the tax can provide a huge benefit by reducing one particular type of trading that does not benefit the economy: high-frequency trading. Computer-generated algorithms allow some traders to obtain information a fraction of a second faster than other traders, who then rush to buy or sell before others can respond, turning what would otherwise be a ripple in the market into a tidal wave that destabilizes the system. This technology is not a tool that benefits the average American family.\n"
h2Text,"Raising Revenue to Invest in America’s Future\n"
pText,"It has been estimated that this legislation would raise up to $220 billion in the first year or more than $2.4 trillion over 10 years.\n"
h2Text,"This Is Not a Radical Idea\n"
pText,"There is considerable precedent for a tax on Wall Street speculation. Today some 40 countries have imposed a financial transactions tax including Britain, Germany, France, Switzerland, China, India, South Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, and Brazil. The U.S had a Wall Street speculation tax from 1914 to 1966. In 1914, the tax was 0.02 percent on sales or transfers of stock. In 1932, Congress more than doubled that tax to help finance the government during the Great Depression.\n"
h2Text,"Who Supports the Idea of a Wall Street Speculation Fee?\n"
pText,"A financial transaction tax has support from business leaders like Bill Gates and Warren Buffett, and a number of officials from the Reagan and Bush administrations, including Paul Volcker, Sheila Blair, and David Stockman.\nMore than 1,000 economists, including Jeffery Sachs and Dean Baker, have endorsed a tax on financial speculation and 10 European countries have committed to enacting one. The idea is supported by more than 165 organizations in the U.S., including the National Nurses United, the National Organization for Women, NETWORK, Oxfam America, Public Citizen, and the Sierra Club. The Democratic Party platform also endorsed the establishment of a financial transactions tax.\n"
h2Text,"A Tax for Those Who Can Afford to Pay\n"
pText,"Because the increased trading on Wall Street over the past several decades has not benefited working Americans, the reduced trading that results from a financial transaction tax would not harm the savings of the middle-class who invest through pensions or mutual funds. In fact, these people would likely save money because they would be charged fewer fees for trades. In the case of individuals of modest means who actually trade directly or through brokers, the legislation would provide an income tax credit to offset the entire financial transaction tax for individuals with incomes less than $50,000 and married couples with incomes less than $75,000.\n"
legislation_id,l4
pText,"WASHINGTON, May 21 – Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) led a bicameral group of lawmakers in introducing the Opioid Crisis Accountability and Results Act, as Vermont Attorney General T. J. Donovan announced a lawsuit today against former Purdue Pharma CEO Richard Sackler and seven family members who served on Purdue’s Board of Directors for deliberately misrepresenting the risks of the drug OxyContin.\nThe Opioid Crisis Accountability and Results Act, introduced with Sen. Michael Bennet (D-Colo.) and Representatives Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) and Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii), prohibits illegal marketing and distribution of opioids; creates criminal liability for top company executives; penalizes drug manufacturers who illegally advertise, market or distribute an opioid product; and requires drug makers to reimburse the country for the negative economic impact of their products.\nThe opioid epidemic is estimated to cost the United States over $78 billion per year. In 2016 alone, over 42,000 people died from opioid overdoses. From 1999 to 2016, the number of opioid overdose deaths more than tripled, and U.S. life expectancy as a whole fell for the third year in a row in 2017, due in part to the increase in opioid-related deaths.\n“We know that pharmaceutical companies lied about the addictive impacts of opioids they manufactured. They knew how dangerous these products were, but refused to tell doctors and patients. While some of these companies have made billions each year in profits, not one of them has been held fully accountable for its role in an epidemic that is killing tens of thousands of Americans every year,” Sanders said. “At a time when local, state and federal governments are spending many billions of dollars a year dealing with the impact of the opioid epidemic, we must hold the pharmaceutical companies and executives that created the crisis accountable.”\n“Communities across the country are being ripped apart by the opioid epidemic. Multi-billion-dollar pharmaceutical companies and their executives reaped large profits for years while their questionable marketing and distribution practices precipitated a devastating public health crisis,” Bennet said. “It is far past time for Congress to ensure opioid manufacturers, distributors, and executives fund our response to the crisis they created. Our bill will support programs that combat the opioid crisis and ensure we hold companies and their executives accountable for any future misconduct.”\n“When I visit the communities that have been ravaged by the opioid epidemic, I see the victims of unscrupulous pharmaceutical companies that have put profits over the patients they were intended to serve,” said Khanna. “This bill holds opioid manufacturers and their executives accountable for decades of dishonest sales practices and malicious drug distribution. Over the past 20 years, more than 400,000 people have died of opioid overdoses, and millions more have been stricken by addiction. Their loved ones deserve justice.”\n“Opioid companies have lied, cheated, and profited from the addiction and death left in the wake of the crisis they helped create. The criminal nature of these companies’ actions have destroyed families as well as strained the criminal justice and public health systems,” said Rep. Tulsi Gabbard. “This bill would create tools to hold companies and executives accountable for preying on patients using deceptive marketing tactics, as they proliferated these highly-addictive and destructive drugs on our streets.”\nAny company found in violation of the Opioid Crisis Accountability and Results Act would be fined 25 percent of the profits from their opioid products. Drug manufacturers who illegally advertise, market or distribute an opioid product would also be stripped of any remaining period of market exclusivity for that opioid product, and would lose half of the remaining exclusivity period on other opioid products they have on the market. The legislation would also fine any company found liable for contributing to the opioid epidemic $7.8 billion—10 percent of the annual cost of the opioid crisis.\nOrganizations endorsing the legislation include Public Citizen, CREDO, American Medical Student Association (AMSA), National Collaborative for Health Equity and Prescription Justice."
legislation_id,l5
pText,"If we are going to create a financial system that works for all Americans, we have got to stop financial institutions from ripping off Americans by charging sky-high interest rates and outrageous fees. Millions of Americans should not be paying credit card interest rates of 25 or 30 percent.\nSenator Sanders and Representative Ocasio-Cortez are introducing the Loan Shark Prevention Act to establish a national usury rate of 15 percent on credit cards and other consumer loans, the same interest rate cap that Congress imposed on credit unions almost 40 years ago.\nUnder this bill, the Federal Reserve would have the authority to allow lenders to charge higher rates, if the Fed determines that the national usury cap would threaten the safety and soundness of financial institutions as evidenced by adverse trends in liquidity, capital, earnings, and growth; or if money market interest rates have risen over the preceding six-month period. Interest rates could only be raised above 15 percent for a maximum of 18 months. This bill would not preempt state laws establishing lower maximum interest rates.\n"
h2Text,"Why is this bill needed?\n"
pText,"• Americans now hold over $1 trillion in credit card debt, the highest amount in history.\n• The average household with credit card debt has over $15,000 in credit card debt.\n• In 2018, credit card companies generated over $178 billion in interest and fees.\n• The average credit card interest rate for 100 cards monitored by CreditCards.com is now a record-breaking 17.71 percent.\n• The average maximum credit card interest rate for those 100 cards CreditCards.com is up to 24.98 percent, including those cardholders with good or excellent credit.\n• The average interest rate on a retail credit card is 27 percent.\n• The average interest rate on payday loans is 391 percent. According to Pew, the average payday loan customer borrows $375 over five months and pays $520 in fees.\nn"
h2Text,"Strong state interest rate caps eradicated in 1978\n"
pText,"Establishing a national usury law is not a radical concept. Up until 1978, about half of the states in the country had usury laws on the books capping interest rates on credit cards and other consumer loans. But, those state interest rate caps were obliterated by a 1978 Supreme Court decision (Marquette National Bank v. First of Omaha Service Corp) which concluded that national banks could charge whatever interest rate they wanted if they moved to a state without a usury law.\n"
h2Text,"Congress imposed 15% interest rate cap on credit unions in 1980\n"
pText,"This bill simply applies the same statutory interest rate cap on credit cards that Congress imposed on credit unions in 1980 as a result of an amendment to the Federal Credit Union Act that capped interest rates on credit union loans, including credit cards, at 15%. (From 1934- 1980, Congress capped interest rates on credit union loans at 12 percent.)\nThe National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) has the authority to raise interest rates, if it determines that the 15% cap threatens the safety and soundness of credit unions. The Loan Shark Prevention Act would give this same authority to the Federal Reserve to raise the 15% interest rate cap on credit cards.\nThe reasonable interest rate cap Congress imposed on credit unions has protected consumers from being charged usurious interest rates; it has not harmed the safety and soundness of these institutions; and it has not negatively impacted the access to credit of credit union members.\nCredit union members with good credit scores are still able to receive credit cards and loans that they need at reasonable interest rates. And, unlike banks, credit unions have not received hundreds of billions of dollars from U.S. taxpayers from the Treasury Department of the Federal Reserve. The time has come to extend this reasonable interest rate cap to all financial institutions that issue credit cards.\n"
h2Text,"In 1991, the Senate voted 74-19 to cap credit card interest rates at 14%\n"
pText,"In 1991, the Senate voted 74-19 in favor of the D’Amato-Lieberman-Specter-Conrad amendment to cap credit card interest rates at 14%.\nHere is what former Senator D’Amato said about his amendment on the floor of the Senate in 1991:\n“Fourteen percent is certainly a reasonable rate of interest for banks to charge customers for credit card debt. It allows a comfortable profit margin but keeps banks in line.”"
legislation_id,l5-2
// to do!!!
pText,"Today’s modern-day loan sharks are no longer lurking on street corners, threatening violence to collect their payments. Today’s loan sharks wear expensive suits and work on Wall Street, where they make hundreds of millions of dollars in total compensation by charging sky-high fees and usurious interest rates, and head financial institutions like JP Morgan Chase, Citigroup, Bank of America, and American Express.\nLast year, credit-card companies raked in "
combination.append(link("nearly $180 billion", url_string: "https://www.businessinsider.com/how-apple-card-will-still-make-money-with-low-interest-and-no-fees-2019-3"
pText," in revenue from interest and fees. This year, they are expected to charge Americans "
combination.append(link("$122 billion", url_string: "http://money.com/money/5640148/credit-card-interest-2019/"
pText," in interest payments alone.\nDespite the fact that banks can borrow money today at less than "
combination.append(link("2.5", url_string: "https://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/openmarket.htm"
pText," percent from the Federal Reserve, the median credit-card interest rate today for consumers is an astounding "
combination.append(link("21.36", url_string: "https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2019/05/09/bernie-sanders-ocasio-cortez-want-cap-credit-card-interest-rates-percent/?utm_term=.345ae19eb61f"
pText," percent.\nIf you get a credit card from a store like Macy’s, Kohl’s, or Lowe’s, interest rates are even higher. Stores like these are charging customers an average interest rate of more than "
combination.append(link("27 percent", url_string: "https://www.creditcards.com/credit-card-news/retail-store-credit-card-survey.php"
pText,". And many of the stores rely on these high-interest-rate cards for more than a third of their revenue. Incredibly, Macy’s earned "
combination.append(link("almost 40 percent of its revenue", url_string: "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/11/business/dealbook/retailer-credit-cards-macys-losses.html"
pText," from these cards and Kohl’s recently made 35 percent of its total profit from high-interest-rate cards.\nWhat this means is that if you buy a $500 refrigerator from Lowe’s or Home Depot on one of their credit cards, you will likely owe an additional $136 in interest.\nWhile credit-card companies are ripping off the middle class, the CEOs of large financial institutions are making out like bandits.\nJamie Dimon, the CEO of JP Morgan Chase, is now worth "
combination.append(link("$1.4 billion", url_string: "https://www.forbes.com/profile/jamie-dimon/#481cdecf5063"
pText," after his bank got a taxpayer bailout of more than $400 billion during the financial crisis.\nThe former CEO of American Express, Kenneth Chenault, pocketed "
combination.append(link("$370 million", url_string: "https://www.ft.com/content/b2b47856-bacb-11e7-9bfb-4a9c83ffa852"
pText," in compensation after leading that credit-card giant for 17 years.\nThe American people are sick and tired of being ripped off by the same financial institutions that they bailed out ten years ago.\nIf we are going to create a financial system that works for all Americans, we have got to stop financial institutions from charging outrageous interest rates and fees.\nAt the same time, we must make sure that giant Wall Street financial institutions are not the only way Americans can gain access to banking services.\nWe can provide affordable banking options for millions of unbanked and underbanked Americans by allowing the more than 30,000 post offices in America to offer basic financial services.\n"
h2Text,"Cap Interest Rates at 15 Percent\n"
pText,"At a time when the American people hold a record $1 trillion in credit-card debt and desperately need relief, we need to establish a national maximum interest rate of 15 percent on credit cards and other consumer loans.\nIn America today, millions of consumers are now paying credit card interest rates of 20, 25, even 30 percent. When credit-card companies charge over 20 percent interest on credit cards, they are not engaged in the business of making credit available — they are involved in extortion and loan sharking.\nThe Bible, and virtually every major religion on earth, has a term for this practice: it’s called usury. In The Divine Comedy, Dante reserved a special place in the Seventh Circle of Hell for people who charged usurious interest rates. Today we don’t need the hellfire, the pitchforks, or the rivers of boiling blood, but we do need a national usury law that caps interest rates on credit cards and consumer loans at 15 percent.\n"
h2Text,"Congress Imposed a 15 Percent Interest Rate Cap on Credit Unions in 1980\n"
pText,"In 1980, Congress passed legislation requiring credit unions to cap interest rates on their loans, with some exceptions, at no more than 15 percent. And that law has worked very well.\nUnlike big banks, credit unions are member-owned and democratically controlled cooperatives that exist to provide affordable banking services to their members. Unlike big banks, credit unions didn’t engage in risky behavior that caused the financial collapse. And, unlike big banks, credit unions did not receive a huge bailout from the taxpayers of this country.\nCredit union members with good credit scores are able to receive the credit cards and the loans that they need at reasonable interest rates. Capping interest rates at 15 percent on the loans credit unions make was a good idea in 1980. It is time to extend this cap to every lender in America.\n"
h2Text,"Strong State Interest Rate Caps Eradicated in 1978\n"
pText,"Establishing a national usury law is not a radical concept. Up until 1978, about half of the states in the country had usury laws on the books capping interest rates on credit cards and other consumer loans. For example, in Alabama, the legal maximum rate of interest was "
combination.append(link("8 percent", url_string: "https://statelaws.findlaw.com/alabama-law/alabama-interest-rates-laws.html"
pText,". In Alaska it was "
combination.append(link("10.5 percent", url_string: "https://statelaws.findlaw.com/alaska-law/alaska-interest-rates-laws.html"
pText,". In Arizona it was "
combination.append(link("10 percent", url_string: "https://statelaws.findlaw.com/arizona-law/arizona-interest-rates-laws.html"
pText,". In Idaho, it was "
combination.append(link("12 percent", url_string: "https://statelaws.findlaw.com/idaho-law/idaho-interest-rates-laws.html"
pText,". In Kansas, it was "
combination.append(link("15 percent", url_string: "https://statelaws.findlaw.com/kansas-law/kansas-interest-rates-laws.html"
pText,". In New Mexico it was "
combination.append(link("15 percent", url_string: "https://statelaws.findlaw.com/new-mexico-law/new-mexico-interest-rates-laws.html"
pText,". And, in Vermont, the legal maximum rate of interest was "
combination.append(link("12 percent", url_string: "https://statelaws.findlaw.com/vermont-law/vermont-interest-rates-laws.html"
pText,".\nBut, those state interest-rate caps were obliterated by a 1978 Supreme Court decision (Marquette National Bank v. First of Omaha Service Corp), which concluded that national banks could charge whatever interest rate they wanted if they moved to a state without a usury law. So most of these companies moved to South Dakota or Delaware with no interest rate caps, allowing them to charge people in Vermont or Kansas interest rates of 20 or 30 percent. That is unacceptable. Under this plan, the disastrous Marquette Supreme Court decision would be repealed.\n"
h2Text,"In 1991, the Senate Voted 74–19 to Cap Credit Card Interest Rates at 14 Percent.\n"
pText,"In 1991, the Senate voted 74–19 in favor of the D’Amato-Lieberman-Specter-Conrad amendment to cap credit card interest rates at 14 percent.\nHere is what former Senator D’Amato said about his amendment on the floor of the Senate in 1991:\n“Fourteen percent is certainly a reasonable rate of interest for banks to charge customers for credit card debt. It allows a comfortable profit margin but keeps banks in line.”\n"
h2Text,"Ending Payday Lending Scams\n"
pText,"There are "
combination.append(link("63 million adults", url_string: "https://www.fdic.gov/householdsurvey/2017/2017report.pdf"
pText," in this country who are either unbanked or underbanked — disproportionately African American and Hispanic. These low-income Americans live in communities that do not have regular banking services and are forced to depend on predatory payday lenders and check-cashing outfits. Loans from payday lenders carry an average interest rate of 391 percent and can reach as high as "
combination.append(link("900 percent", url_string: "https://www.npr.org/2018/01/24/579961808/under-trump-appointee-consumer-protection-agency-seen-helping-payday-lenders"
pText,".\nAccording to "
combination.append(link("Pew", url_string: "http://www.pewtrusts.org/en/research-and-analysis/issue-briefs/2018/02/standards-needed-for-safe-small-installment-loans-from-banks-credit-unions"
pText,", the average payday loan customer borrows $375 and pays $520 in fees, trapping low-income Americans in a vicious cycle of debt. That is unacceptable. We are going to end the greed of predatory lenders and provide affordable banking options for low-income communities.\n"
h2Text,"Expanding Affordable Bankinng Options Through Postal Banking\n"
pText,"Americans desperately need and deserve access to banking services that do not rely on either payday lenders or Wall Street financial behemoths. Post offices exist in almost every community in our country. There are "
combination.append(link("more than 31,000", url_string: "https://facts.usps.com/size-and-scope/"
pText," retail post offices in this country. An important way to provide decent banking opportunities for low-income communities is to allow the U.S. Postal Service to engage in basic banking services.\nThis is not a radical idea. The vast majority of postal services around the world allow their customers to do some form of banking. There are "
combination.append(link("1.5 billion people", url_string: "https://www.apwu.org/news/deptdiv-news-article/postal-banking-successful-around-world-could-it-work-here"
pText," worldwide who bank with postal services. The American people should have this option as well, just as they have in the past. From 1911 to 1966, the U.S. Postal Service offered banking services. In 1947, the Postal service had "
combination.append(link("4 million", url_string: "https://slate.com/news-and-politics/2014/08/postal-banking-already-worked-in-the-usa-and-it-will-work-again.html"
pText," people utilizing its financial services.\nWe need a Postmaster General and a Postal Service Board of Governors who will work with the postal unions to allow post offices to offer affordable and basic banking services and we need to implement the Postal Service Protection Act that Sen. Sanders introduced in 2013.\nThe Postal Service already cashes Treasury checks and issues money orders. The USPS should fully exercise its existing statutory authority and implement pilot programs offering affordable financial services, including ATMs, paycheck cashing, bill payment and electronic money transfers in post offices.\nSome of the financial services USPS could provide include:\n"
bulletList,["Basic checking and savings accounts", "Low-interest loans", "Debit cards", "ATMs", "Check cashing", "Money wiring services", "Online banking services"]
pText,"Together, we are going to put predatory lenders out of business and provide affordable banking options to all Americans through the United States Postal Service."
legislation_id,l6
h2Text,"Title I—Establishment of the Universal Medicare Program\n"
bulletList,[
"Establishes a national health insurance program for every resident of the United States, including the District of Columbia and the territories. Provides for patient freedom of choice among providers. Creates an enrollment mechanism and provides for issuance of health insurance cards."
]
pText,"Effective date of benefits: four years after the date of enactment (starting January 1 of that year)\n"
h2Text,"Title II—Comprehensive Benefits\n"
bulletList,[
"Requires coverage of the following benefits: hospital services, including emergency services and inpatient drugs; ambulatory patient services; primary and preventive services, including disease management; prescription drugs, medical devices, and biological products; mental health and substance abuse treatment services, including inpatient care; laboratory and diagnostic services; reproductive, maternity, and newborn care; pediatrics; oral health and vision; rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices; emergency services and transportation; home- and communitybased long-term services and supports; other items as deemed necessary.",
"States may provide additional benefits at their expense.",
"Institutional long-term care coverage for seniors and people with disabilities will continue as it is currently covered under Medicaid, complete with a maintenance of effort provision; no one receiving benefits through Medicaid or any other federal or state health program will lose support. Separating home-and-community-based services from institutional services will allow us to erase the current institutional bias and ensure people are allowed to choose the setting which suits them best."
]
h2Text,"Title III—Provider Participation\n"
bulletList,[
"Requires all providers to sign a participation agreement, which includes nondiscrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, income, religion, age, sex or sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, handicapping condition, or illness (subject to the provider’s scope of practice). Participation agreements may be terminated by the agency for cause, or by the provider for any reason.",
"Providers shall be considered qualified if they are properly licensed and certified under State and federal law to provide such services. The agency shall establish and maintain national minimum provider standards.",
"Allows providers to enter into private contracts with individuals for services otherwise covered by this Act as long as the individual pays fully out of pocket."
]
h2Text,"Title IV—Administration\n"
bulletList,[
"Establishes a Universal Medicare Agency to oversee and administer this Act, within the Department of Health and Human Services. The agency shall be headed by the Secretary of HHS and 6 other individuals, subject to Senate confirmation. The agency shall be headed by the Secretary of HHS and 6 other individuals, subject to Senate confirmation.",
"Requires the agency to consult with all relevant stakeholders when formulating guidelines and regulations.",
"Provides for regional and state administration.",
"Provides for a Beneficiary Ombudsman to assist individuals enrolled in the Act, and an Inspector General for the Board.",
"Applies all current Medicaid fraud provisions to this Act."
]
h2Text,"Title V—Quality Assessment\n"
bulletList,[
"Creates an American Health Quality Council to review and evaluate all practice guidelines, profile practices and patterns of health care, conduct quality reviews, and report to the agency on outcomes research.",
"Requires the Council to evaluate and address health care disparities."
]
h2Text,"Title VI—Budget and Cost Containment\n"
bulletList,[
"Requires the agency to create an annual budget, which shall include the cost of covered health services; quality assessment activities; health professional education expenditures; administrative costs; innovation; operating and other expenditures; capital expenditures; and public health activities. For the first five years following the date of enactment, the budget may also provide transition assistance to health insurance administration workers who may be displaced because of the implementation of this Act. Provides for a reserve fund to anticipate natural disasters or other such public health emergencies.",
"Continues current Medicare payment methods, including alternative payment models established under ACA and MACRA.",
"Requires the agency to negotiate the price of prescription drugs and establish a formulary. Gives patients and providers the right to petition to have drugs placed on or off the formulary. Provides a means of access for patients who need off-formulary medications."
]
h2Text,"Title VII—Universal Health Insurance Trust Fund\n"
bulletList,[
"Creates a trust fund for this Act. Includes all current federal health insurance program receipts, as well as all extra dollars attributed to changes in the Internal Revenue Code (for example, removing the employer health insurance premium exclusion).",
"Bans the Hyde Amendment."
]
h2Text,"Title VIII—ERISA Conforming Amendments\n"
h2Text,"Title IX—Relationship to Existing Federal Health Programs\n"
bulletList,[
"Provides for a transition from Medicare, Medicaid, FEHB, SCHIP, and any other federal health insurance program into the Universal Medicare Program.",
"Requires VA and IHS to stay independent for the first ten years of the program, with an evaluation at the end to determine if the systems need to stay independent. Requires HHS to consult with tribal leaders and stakeholders before making any determination with respect to the Indian Health Service."
]
h2Text,"Title X—Transition\n"
bulletList,[
"Provides for a four-year phase-in. Establishes a Medicare Transition Plan to allow Americans to buy into the Medicare program during the transition. Lowers the Medicare age to 55 in year one, 45 in year two, and 35 in year three. Adds new dental, vision, and hearing benefits to Medicare in year one. Lowers Medicare out-of-pocket costs in year one and eliminates the Part A and Part B deductibles. Eliminates the two-year waiting period for Medicare coverage for individuals with disabilities. Provides for continuity of care for persons with private health coverage to ensure a smooth transition. "
]
h2Text,"Title XI—Miscellaneous\n"
bulletList,[
"Updates the resource limits under Social Security to current dollars and indexes for inflation going forward. Provides definitions of certain terms."
]
legislation_id,l6-2
pText,"“How are you going to pay for it?”\nThat is the question that bookends nearly every media conversation that takes place on Medicare for All. The straightforward answer is, we already are.\nUnlike other government outlays – for example, a ship for the Navy – Medicare for All does not represent any new spending at all. Instead, it represents a rebalance of how our current dollars are spent.\nIf Congress were to authorize the Navy to procure an aircraft carrier, and appropriate the necessary funding, the federal government would spend approximately $13 billion building that ship. If Congress does not authorize and appropriate the funding, then the ship will not get built. People will not individually purchase an aircraft carrier, nor will any private corporation.\nHealth care is fundamentally different. If the status quo stays in place, between 2022 and 2031 the federal government will spend $59.65 trillion. According to estimates from the conservative Mercatus Center, under the Senate’s Medicare for All legislation, those expenditures will drop by approximately $2 trillion.2\nAnother study released by PERI at the University of Massachusetts found that “Medicare for All could reduce total health care spending in the U.S. by nearly 10 percent,” resulting in more than $5 trillion in savings.\nToday, the traditional Medicare program only spends 2 percent of its costs on administration. That’s less than one-sixth the administrative costs of private health insurance companies.\nStudies have found that the U.S. could save up $500 billion annually in billing and administrative costs by moving to Medicare for All. That money could be used to greatly expand primary care in this country and make certain that all Americans get the health care they needed when they need it – saving billions on expensive emergency room care and hospital visits.\nMoreover, the United States pays, by far, the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs – because Congress has done nothing to regulate the price of medicine. If the U.S. joined the rest of the industrialized world and negotiated with the pharmaceutical companies to lower prices, our country could save up to $113 billion per year.\nA Medicare for All system not only benefits individuals and families, it would benefit the business community. Small- and medium-sized businesses would be free to focus on their core business goals instead of wasting precious energy and resources navigating an incredibly complex system to provide health insurance to their employees.\nUnder the current system, while thousands of Americans die each year because they lack access to the health care they desperately need, the top five health insurance companies in 2018 made $21 billion in profits, led by the UnitedHealth Group, which made $11.99 billion.\nAs tens of thousands of American families face bankruptcy and financial ruin because of the outrageously high cost of health care, the top 65 healthcare CEOs made $1.7 billion in compensation in 2017 including $83.2 million for the CEO of UnitedHealth Group; $58.7 million for the CEO of Aetna; and $43.9 million for the CEO of Cigna.\nThere is broad consensus – from conservative to progressive economists – that the Senate Medicare for All bill, as written, would result in substantial savings to the American people.\nThe question is what entity is fundamentally responsible for financing our nation’s health?\nMedicare for All represents a belief that our current system relies far too heavily on individuals’ ability to finance necessary and lifesaving medical care through premiums, co-pays, deductibles, and other out-of-pocket expenses. Under a Medicare for All system, government would be the chief financier of health care.\nThe largest share of national health expenditures already comes from the government, amounting to $26 trillion out of the $47 trillion, or 55 percent, of what our country will spend on health care from 2018 to 2027.\nHousehold, business, and philanthropic spending makes up the rest, with $20.7 trillion in projected spending from 2018 to 2027. It should be noted that for expensive medical illnesses and procedures, private philanthropy has become a major source of funding, and not just from the wealthy and foundations.\nGoFundMe has reported that one in three of the site’s campaigns are to pay for medical bills. The site hosts more than 250,000 of these campaigns, raising more than $650 million each year. In November 2018, Spectrum health rejected a candidate for a heart transplant because it did not believe she could afford the regimen of immunosuppressive drugs required after surgery. The rejection letter recommended “a fundraising effort of $10,000.”\nThis gets to the heart of why the rebalancing of the chart above is necessary. Fundamentally, our dysfunctional system not only puts health care out of financial reach for millions of Americans who cannot afford necessary drugs such as insulin, it is regressive in its individual financial impact.\nAccording to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, health care – and health insurance, specifically – account for a much higher share of spending for those toward the bottom of the income distribution than those at the top. Lower income groups also spend a greater portion of their income on costs not covered by insurance. Medicare for All solves the fundamental moral question of making sure those at the bottom are no longer locked out of the health care system due to cost. Our financing system must fundamentally correct this flaw in our current system.\nAs the wealthiest country in the world, we have a variety of options available to support a Medicare for All, single-payer health care system that guarantees high quality, affordable health care as a right, not a privilege, to every man, woman, and child in this country.\nThose options include, but are not limited to:\n"
bulletList,["Creating a 4 percent income-based premium paid by employees, exempting the first $29,000 in income for a family of four;", "Imposing a 7.5 percent income-based premium paid by employers, exempting the first $2 million in payroll to protect small businesses;", "Eliminating health tax expenditures;", "Making the federal income tax more progressive, including a marginal tax rate of up to 70 percent on those making above $10 million, taxing earned and unearned income at the same rates, and limiting tax deductions for filers in the top tax bracket;", "Making the estate tax more progressive, including a 77 percent top rate on an inheritance above $1 billion;", "Establishing a tax on extreme wealth;", "Closing the “Gingrich-Edwards Loophole”;", "Imposing a fee on large financial institutions; and", "Repealing corporate accounting gimmicks."]
pText,"These are just some of the policies that could provide revenue to finance Medicare for All. Under every single one of these options the average American family will save thousands of dollars a year because it will no longer be writing large checks to private health insurance companies.\nA study by RAND found that moving to a Medicare-for-all system in New York would save a family with an income of $185,000 or less about $3,000 a year, on average. Citizens for Tax Justice found that middle class families would see their after-tax income go up by about $3,240 a year under Medicare for All. Another study found that middle class families would spend about 14 percent less of their income on health care than they do today. Even the projections from the Mercatus Center suggest that the average American could save about $6,000 under Medicare for all over a 10-year period.\nToday, the United States has the most expensive, inefficient, and bureaucratic health care system in the world. Despite the fact that we are the only major country on Earth not to guarantee health care for all -- and have 34 million Americans who are uninsured and even more who are underinsured -- we now spend more than twice as much per capita on health care as the average developed country.\nAccording to a recent study, 45 percent of Americans are worried a major illness could leave them bankrupt, 1 out of 4 Americans skipped needed medical care because they could not afford it, and 77 percent are concerned rising health costs will cause significant and lasting damage to our economy.\nAccording to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, we spend more than $10,700 per capita on health care. Meanwhile, Canada spends just $4,826, France spends $4,902, Germany spends $5,728, and the United Kingdom spends $4,264 per person on health care.\nFurther, despite the fact that health care spending consumes almost 18 percent of our GDP, our health care outcomes are worse than all of these other countries. For example, our life expectancy is 2.5 years lower than Germany's and our mortality rate for children under the age of 18 is at the top of the list compared to other developed countries.\nIn other words, every major industrialized nation on earth has made health care a right, provided universal coverage to all, and achieved far better health outcomes in terms of life expectancy and infant mortality rates – all while spending far less per capita than we do. Please do not tell us that 5 the United States of America, the wealthiest nation in the history of the world, cannot do the same.\nThere needs to be vigorous debate as to the best way to finance our Medicare for All legislation. Unlike the Republican leadership in Congress which held no hearings on their disastrous bill which would have thrown 32 million people off of health insurance, we will continue to get the best ideas from economists, doctors, nurses, and ordinary Americans to guarantee health care as a fundamental right."
legislation_id,l7
pText,"The Community Health Center and Primary Care Workforce Expansion Act of 2019 will extend and expand funding for the community health center and National Health Service Corps programs as well as provide much-needed capital funding for health center infrastructure.\nIf Congress doesn’t act by September 30th, these centers will lose the federal funding they need to keep their doors open. If that happens, our primary health care crisis will become even more dire.\nCommunity health centers provide high-quality primary medical, dental, mental health care, substance use disorder treatment, and low-cost prescription drugs to 28 million people in 11,000 communities in every state in the country. The National Health Service Corps provides scholarships and loan-repayment to over 10,000 clinicians each year working in underserved communities, often in health centers.\nUnder this bill, each program will see a modest 10 percent increase each year for five years. It also includes $4.6 billion for capital projects, which will allow community health centers across the nation to modernize their facilities and expand the scope of services they offer to better address the opioid epidemic and to meet the health care needs of an expanding patient base.\nThis new funding will allow 5.4 million more Americans to receive the primary care they need."
legislation_id,l8
pText,"Puerto Rico is in especially dire need of increased food assistance funding as a result of the hurricanes last year, which devastated the island. Without new appropriations, Puerto Rico will run out of funding for the Nutrition Assistance Program that was approved in response to the hurricanes. An estimated 1.4 million U.S. citizens, including 300,000 children will face a large cut to their food assistance benefits, and up to 230,000 people will lose their benefits entirely.\nIn the early 1980’s, Puerto Rico was removed from SNAP and given a block grant to administer nutrition assistance. The block grant, the Nutrition Assistance Program, has meant less funding and fewer benefits for Puerto Ricans – 85 percent of whom are food insecure. People who receive assistance through the Nutrition Assistance Program receive fewer benefits than SNAP recipients. A family of four in Puerto Rico receives a maximum benefit of $410 per month while a family of four living in the Continental U.S. receives a maximum benefit of $649 per month.\nThe Northern Mariana Islands and American Samoa also receive block grants instead of SNAP, putting pressure on their funding for nutrition assistance.\nIn January, the House of Representatives approved additional disaster funding for Puerto Rico, which included an additional $600 million for Nutrition Assistance Program (NAP) funding. President Trump’s administration called the $600 million needed for food assistance \"excessive and unnecessary.\"\nThat is why Senators Sanders and Representative Velázquez are introducing the Equitable Nutrition Assistance for the Territories Act of 2019. The legislation introduced today is needed more than ever in the aftermath of a decades-long fiscal crisis, Hurricanes Irma and Maria and the imminent disaster funding cliff.\nThe Equitable Nutrition Assistance for the Territories Act of 2019 is an amendment to the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. The bill allows Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands to transition to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). SNAP offers nutrition assistance to eligible, low-income individuals and families. (Guam and the U.S.V.I. are existing participants of SNAP.)\nIn order to participate in SNAP, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, and Northern Mariana Islands are required to submit a plan of operation and a beginning date to the Secretary of Agriculture.\nThe Commonwealth of Puerto Rico is permitted to continue providing benefits in the form of cash. The Family Market Program under SNAP in Puerto Rico will also be allowed to continue. The Act authorizes the appropriation of necessary funds to the Secretary of Agriculture every fiscal year."
legislation_id,l9
pText,"The Water Affordability, Transparency, Equity and Reliability (WATER) Act of 2019 would create a trust fund to support the nation’s drinking water and clean water infrastructure. As much as $35 billion a year would be dedicated without further appropriation to drinking water and wastewater infrastructure, creating up to nearly a million jobs throughout the economy. The bill\n"
bulletList,[
"1) Provides $35 billion a year to drinking water and wastewater improvements;", "2) Creates a water trust fund;", "3) Creates up to nearly 1 million jobs across the economy and protect American workers;", "4) Prioritizes disadvantaged communities with grants and additional support;", "5) Expands funding for technical assistance to small, rural, and indigenous communities;", "6) Funds projects to address water contamination from PFAS;", "7) Requires US EPA to study water affordability, shutoffs, discrimination, and civil rights violations by water providers;", "8) Upgrades household wells and septic systems;", "9) Helps homeowners replace lead service lines; and", "10) Provides more than $1 billion a year to update water infrastructure in public schools."
]
pText,"The WATER Act of 2019 is endorsed by over 140 national, state, and local organizations including:\nFood and Water Watch;\nAmerican Federation of State,\nCounty and Municipal Employees (AFSCME);\nAmerican Federation of Teachers (AFT);\nPartnership for Working Families;\nCommunication Workers of America (CWA);\nClean Water Action; Citizens for Water;\nCorporate Accountability; In the Public Interest;\nLocal Progress;\nNAACP;\nNational Education Association (NEA);\nPeople Demanding Action; People's Action;\nPublic Citizen;\nGreenpeace;\nUAW;\nUnited Steelworkers"
legislation_id,l10
pText,"The Social Security Expansion Act would:"
bulletList,[
"Extend the solvency of Social Security for about 52 years to the year 2071 by requiring the wealthiest American households to pay their fair share of taxes. Today, because of the earnings cap on Social Security taxes, a CEO making $20 million a year pays the same amount of money into Social Security as someone who makes $132,900 a year. This legislation would lift this cap and subject all income above $250,000 to the Social Security Payroll tax. Under this bill, 98.2 percent of wage earners would not see their taxes go up by one penny.",
"Expand Social Security benefits across-the-board. Under this bill, Social Security retirement benefits for low-income workers would go up by about $1,300 a year.",
"Increase Cost-Of-Living-Adjustments (COLAs). This bill would more accurately measure the spending patterns for seniors by adopting the Consumer Price Index for the Elderly (CPI-E). Older Americans, by and large, are not going out on spending sprees buying big screen TVs, laptops, or the latest high-tech gadgets. Rather, they spend a disproportionate amount of their income on health care and prescription drugs and that would be reflected in the formula for calculating COLAs under this legislation.",
"Improve the Special Minimum Benefit for Social Security recipients. This bill will help low income workers stay out of poverty by updating the Special Minimum Benefit to make it easier for them to qualify and by increasing and indexing the benefit level so that it is equal to 125 percent of the poverty line.",
"Restore student benefits up to age 22 for children of disabled or deceased workers, if the child is a full-time student in a college or vocational school. This legislation restores student benefits that were eliminated in 1983 to help educate children of deceased or disabled parents.",
"Combine the Disability Insurance Trust Fund with the Old Age and Survivors Trust fund to help senior citizens and persons with disabilities."
]
pText,"Social Security is one of the most popular and successful government programs in the history of our country. For more than 80 years, through good times and bad, Social Security has paid out every benefit owed to every eligible American on time and without delay.\nIn 2016, Social Security lifted 22 million Americans out of poverty, including more than 15 million seniors. Before it was created in 1935, about half of our nation’s seniors were living in poverty. Today their poverty rate is just 8.8 percent.\nYet, despite this success, tens of millions of seniors are still struggling to get by and many older workers fear that they will never be able to retire with security and dignity.\nToday, one out of every five seniors are trying to survive on an income of less than $13,500 a year. And to make matters worse, about half of Americans 55 and older have zero retirement savings. Meanwhile, the average Social Security benefit is $1,342 a month.\nLet’s be clear: Social Security is not going broke. Social Security has a $2.9 trillion surplus in its trust fund and can pay every promised benefit to every eligible American until the year 2034. After that, the Social Security Administration estimates that there will be enough funding available to pay 79 percent of promised benefits.\nGiven this reality, our job is not to cut Social Security, as many of our Republican colleagues in Congress want to do. Our job is to expand Social Security and extend its solvency so that everyone in America can retire with the respect that they have earned and deserve after a lifetime of hard work. That’s what the Social Security Expansion Act is all about."
legislation_id,l11
pText,"Under this legislation, the families of all 588 billionaires in America who have a combined net worth of over $3 trillion would owe up to $2.2 trillion in estate taxes.\n"
pText,"This legislation:\n"
bulletList,[
"Exempts the first $3.5 million of an individual’s estate from the estate tax. This plan would only impact the wealthiest 0.2 percent of Americans who inherit more than $3.5 million. 99.8 percent of Americans would not see their taxes go up by one penny under this plan.",
"Establishes a new progressive estate tax rate structure as follows:\n- 45 percent on the value of an estate between $3.5 million and $10 million.\n- 50 percent for the value of an estate between $10 million and $50 million.\n- 55 percent for the value of an estate in excess of $50 million.\n- 77 percent for the value of an estate in excess of $1 billion. (The top estate tax rate was 77 percent from 1941 to 1976, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.)",
"Ends tax breaks for dynasty trusts. Billionaires like Sheldon Adelson and the Walton family, who own the majority of Walmart’s stock, have for decades manipulated the rules for trusts to pass fortunes from one generation to the next without paying estate or gift taxes. This bill would:\nStrengthen the “generation-skipping tax,” which is designed to prevent avoidance of estate and gift taxes, by applying it with no exclusion to any trust set up to last more than 50 years.\nPrevent abuses of grantor retained annuity trusts (GRATs) by barring donors from taking assets back from these trusts just a couple of years after establishing them to avoid gift taxes (while earnings on the assets are left to heirs tax-free). The lawyer who invented this technique for the Walton’s claims it has cost the Treasury $100 billion since 2000.\nPrevent wealthy families from avoiding gifts taxes by paying income taxes on earnings generated by assets in “grantor trusts.”\nSharply limit the annual exclusion from the gift tax (which was meant to shield the normal giving done around holidays and birthdays from tax and recordkeeping requirements) for gifts made to trusts.",
"Closes other loopholes in the estate and gift tax. One of these loopholes involves “valuation discounts,” restrictions placed on interests in family businesses which are claimed, falsely, to reduce the value of the estate. Another loophole involves claiming that the value of an inherited asset is lower, for estate tax purposes, than what is claimed for income tax purposes to calculate gains when the asset is sold.",
"Protects farm land and conservation easements. The bill would protect family farmers by allowing them to lower the value of their farmland by up to $3 million for estate tax purposes. The bill also would increase the maximum exclusion for conservation easements to $2 million."
]
pText,"The most important economic reality of our time is that over the past 40 years there has been an enormous transfer of wealth from the middle class to the wealthiest people in America.\nIn America today, the top one-tenth of one percent owns almost as much wealth as the bottom 90 percent. The three wealthiest people in this country own more wealth than the bottom half of Americans — 160 million people. Meanwhile, the median household in America has less wealth today than it did 35 years ago after adjusting for inflation, and the average wealth of those in the bottom 40 percent is virtually zero. While low-income workers at Walmart are forced to rely on food stamps, Medicaid and public housing to survive, the Walton family is now worth nearly $170 billion.\nMore than a century ago, Republican President Theodore Roosevelt fought for the creation of a progressive estate tax to reduce the enormous concentration of wealth that existed during the Gilded Age.\nAs Teddy Roosevelt said, \"The absence of effective state, and, especially, national restraint upon unfair money-getting has tended to create a small class of enormously wealthy and economically powerful men, whose chief object is to hold and increase their power. The prime need is to change the conditions which enable these men to accumulate power … Therefore, I believe in a … graduated inheritance tax on big fortunes, properly safeguarded against evasion and increasing rapidly in amount with the size of the estate.\"\nWhile Roosevelt spoke those words on August 31, 1910, they are even more relevant today.\nFrom a moral, economic, and political perspective our nation will not thrive when so few have so much and so many have so little. We need a tax system which asks the billionaire class to pay its fair share of taxes and which reduces the obscene level of wealth inequality in America.\nThe fairest way to reduce wealth inequality, invest in the disappearing middle class, and preserve our democracy is to enact a progressive estate tax on the inherited wealth of multi-millionaires and billionaires.\nThat is why Senator Sanders is introducing legislation to establish a progressive estate tax on the fortunes of the top 0.2 percent. Instead of an America for the wealthy and the powerful, we need to create an economy that works for the 99.8 percent."
legislation_id,l12
pText,"A provision of the FY15 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) approves the transfer of public lands, Oak Flat and nearby Tonto National Forest lands, to private, foreign-owned mining corporations Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton. Resolution Copper, a subsidiary of the corporations, intends to use the land to construct a block cave mine, an environmentally-destructive mining style used to maximize profit.\nBoth Oak Flat and the Tonto National Forest have religious and cultural value to the Western Apache and other tribal people of Arizona. Because of their religious and cultural value, Oak Flat and the Tonto National Forest are protected under the American Indian Religious Freedom Act, the National Historic Preservation Act, and the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act which mandate the protection of American Indian cultural property, lands, and traditions and bar actions that would encroach upon or damage these areas.\nThe Save Oak Flat Act would repeal the provision, Section 3003, and preserve Oak Flat and the Tonto National Forest as protected public lands. We must act to preserve federal lands, respect American Indian religious and cultural traditions, comply with federal regulations, and safeguard the environment from reckless exploitation by foreign corporations.\nBenefits of the bill:\n"
h2Text,"Preservation of American Land\n"
bulletList,["Preserves Oak Flat and nearby Tonto National Forest lands as public lands rather than transferring the rights to foreign-owned mining corporations, who will in turn reap tens of billions in U.S. taxpayer assets from the exchange."]
h2Text,"Respect Sacred and Cultural Areas\n"
bulletList,["Ensures compliance with federal regulations for protecting American Indian cultural landmarks, religions, and traditions."]
h2Text,"Environmental Responsibility\n"
bulletList,["Ensures compliance with federal regulations regarding land and water impact analysis prior to major federal action.", "Safeguards local aquifer and drinking water from damage as a result of block cave mining."]
legislation_id,l13
pText,"For millions of people across the country, working 40 hours or more a week is not enough to support themselves and their families. In fact, one in nine U.S. workers are paid wages that leave them in poverty, even when working full-time and year-round.\nFor the past 40 years, Congress has failed to increase the minimum wage to keep up with inflation. Today’s minimum wage worker has less buying power than a minimum wage worker had in the 1960s. Since the last increase in 2009, the purchasing power of the minimum wage has declined by more than 15 percent due to inflation. There is no place in America where a full-time worker making the minimum wage can afford the basic essentials.\n"
h2Text,"The Raise the Wage Act of 2019 would:\n"
bulletList,["Gradually raise the federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $15 over the next six years to lift millions of workers out of poverty, stimulate local economies, and restore the value of minimum wage;",
"Index future increases in the federal minimum wage to median wage growth to ensure the value of minimum wage does not once again erode over time;",
"Guarantees tipped workers are paid at least the full federal minimum wage by repealing the subminimum wage for tipped workers, which will ensure consistent, livable pay;",
"Guarantees teen workers are paid at least the full federal minimum wage by repealing the rarely used subminimum wage for youth workers; and",
"End subminimum wage certificates for individuals with disabilities to provide opportunities for individuals with disabilities to be competitively employed, taxpaying citizens and participate more fully in their communities."]
h2Text,"Give 40 million Americans a raise.\n"
pText,"According to 2017 estimates from the Economic Policy Institute, raising the minimum wage to $15 would increase wages for roughly 40 million people—nearly 30 percent of the workforce. Once fully phased in, this roughly translates into an annual pay increase of about $3,500 for the average affected worker.\n"
h2Text,"Helps women and workers of color.\n"
pText,"Today, more than 40 percent of Black workers and one third of Hispanic workers would get a raise under this bill. Women make up nearly two-thirds of all minimum wage workers. This bill would provide the greatest benefit to workers of color and women.\n"
h2Text,"Boosts the economy.\n"
pText,"Economists agree that low-wage workers are more likely than other income groups to spend extra earnings immediately. Researchers estimate that a 10 percent increase in the minimum wage would increase sales by around $2 billion each year. This new demand helps create an economy that works for everyone, not just the wealthy few.\n"
legislation_id,l13-2
h2Text,"Scheduled Minimum Wages Increases\n"
h3Text,"Minimum Wage\n"
pText,"Current: $7.25\n"
pText,"2019: $8.55\n"
pText,"2020: $9.85\n"
pText,"2021: $11.15\n"
pText,"2022: $12.45\n"
pText,"2023: $13.75\n"
pText,"2024: $15.00\n"
pText,"2025: Index to Median Wages\n"
h3Text,"Tipped Wage\n"
pText,"Current: $2.13\n"
pText,"2019: $3.60\n"
pText,"2020: $5.10\n"
pText,"2021: $6.60\n"
pText,"2022: $8.10\n"
pText,"2023: $9.60\n"
pText,"2024: $11.10\n"
pText,"2025: $12.60\n"
pText,"2026: $14.10\n"
pText,"2027: Index to Median Wages\n"
h3Text,"Youth Wage\n"
pText,"Current: $4.25\n"
pText,"2019: $5.50\n"
pText,"2020: $6.75\n"
pText,"2021: $8.00\n"
pText,"2022: $9.25\n"
pText,"2023: $10.50\n"
pText,"2024: $11.75\n"
pText,"2025: $13.00\n"
pText,"2026: $14.25\n"
pText,"2027: Index to Median Wages\n"
h3Text,"14(c)\n"
pText,"Current: Subminimum Wage\n"
pText,"2019: Subminimum Wage\n"
pText,"2020: $4.25\n"
pText,"2021: $6.40\n"
pText,"2022: $8.55\n"
pText,"2023: $10.70\n"
pText,"2024: $12.85\n"
pText,"2025: Index to Median Wages\n"
h2Text,"Section 1. Short Title\n"
pText,"The Raise the Wage Act (the Act).\n"
h2Text,"Section 2. Minimum Wage Increases\n"
pText,"Federal Minimum Wage. The Act increases the federal minimum wage for employees over a six-year period. In the first year (2019), the federal minimum wage will increase by $1.30 from $7.25 to $8.55 per hour. This increase will occur on the first day of the third month that begins after the date of enactment of the Act (the effective date). One year after the effective date, the minimum wage will increase by $1.30 to $9.85; two years after the effective date it will increase by $1.30 to $11.15; three years after the effective date, it will increase by $1.30 to $12.45; four years after the effective date, it will increase by $1.30 to $13.75; and five years after the effective date, the minimum wage will increase by $1.25 to $15.00. Six years after the effective date (2025), the minimum wage will be indexed to median wages. This document cites this minimum wage as the “6(a)(1) wage.”\nAnnual Indexing of Minimum Wage Based on Median Wages. Six years after enactment, and each subsequent year, the minimum wage will increase based on the percentage increase, if any, in the median hourly wages of all employees. The Secretary of Labor, through the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), will calculate this change by compiling data on the hourly wages of all employees.\n"
h2Text,"Section 3. Tipped Employees\n"
pText,"Tipped Wages. The Act increases the tipped wage from $2.13 to $3.60 in 2019. For each succeeding year, the Act increases the tipped wage by the lesser of either $1.50 or the difference between the tipped wage and the 6(a)(1) wage. Once the tipped wage reaches the 6(a)(1) wage in 2027, the Act eliminates the tipped wage by stipulating that the tipped wage will be the 6(a)(1) wage.\n"
h2Text,"Section 4. Newly Hired Employees Who Are Less than 20 Years Old\n"
pText,"Youth Wages. The Act increases the minimum wage for youth under age 20 years from $4.25 to $5.50 in 2019. Each subsequent year, the Act increases the youth wage by the lesser of either $1.25 or the difference between the youth wage and the 6(a)(1) wage. Once the youth wage reaches the 6(a)(1) wage in 2027, the Act eliminates the youth wage by stipulating that the youth wage will be the 6(a)(1) wage.\n"
h2Text,"Section 5. Publication of Notice of Changes to the Minimum Wage\n"
pText,"The Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register and on its website, announcements of the increases in the 6(a)(1), tipped, 14(c), and youth wages sixty days prior to each effective date.\n"
h2Text,"Section 6. Promoting Economic Self-Sufficiency for Individuals with Disabilities\n"
pText,"Subminimum Wage Certificates for Individuals with Disabilities. The Secretary will discontinue issuing 14(c) certificates on the date of enactment of the Act. Existing 14(c) certificate holders will be permitted to continue using their subminimum wage certificates for six years after enactment. Certificate holders will increase the hourly wages paid to individuals with disabilities who are being paid subminimum wages pursuant to 14(c) on the following schedule: one year after the 6(a)(1) wage takes effect (the effective date), the subminimum wage paid shall be at least $4.25; two years after the effective date, the subminimum wage paid shall be at least $6.40; three years after the effective date, the subminimum wage paid shall be at least $8.55; four years after the effective date, the subminimum wage paid shall be at least $10.70; and five years after the effective date, the subminimum wage paid shall be at least $12.85. Six years after the effective date, the subminimum wage paid to 14(c) covered employees must be the same as the 6(a)(1) wage. During the six years of transition to the 6(a)(1) wage, the Secretary of Labor shall, upon request, assist certificate holders with compliance and continuing employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities."
legislation_id,l14
pText,"This legislation would require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make sure that Americans don’t pay more for prescription drugs than the median price of the following five countries: Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Japan.\nIf pharmaceutical manufacturers refuse to lower drug prices down to the median price of these five countries, the federal government would be required to approve cheaper generic versions of those drugs, regardless of any patents or market exclusivities that are in place.\nAccording to the Center for Economic and Policy Research, if this legislation were to become law, the prices of most brand name drugs would be cut in half.\nUnder this bill:\n"
bulletList,[
"Premarin, for menopause, which currently costs about $165 for a 30-day supply in the U.S., could cost $83.",
"Januvia, for diabetes, which currently costs about $436 for 30-day supply in the U.S., could cost $218.",
"Advair Diskus, for asthma and COPD, which currently costs about $390 for a 30-day supply in the U.S., could cost $195.",
"Xarelto, for blood clots, which currently costs about $432 for a 30-day supply in the U.S., could cost $216.",
"Lantus, which is insulin for diabetes and currently costs about $387 for a 30-day supply in the U.S., could cost $194.",
"Humira, for arthritis, which currently costs about $2,770 for a 30-day supply in the U.S., could cost $1,385.",
"Enbrel, for arthritis, which currently costs about $4,941 for a 30-day supply in the U.S., could cost $2,471.",
"Ventolin, for asthma, which currently costs about $60 for a 30-day supply in the U.S., could cost $30.",
"Xtandi, for cancer, which currently costs about $101 for a 30-day supply in the U.S., could cost $51."
]
pText,"This is not a radical idea. According to the European Commission, using international drug prices as a benchmark in price negotiations is “the most commonly applied pricing policy in European countries.” The U.S., where Medicare is legally prohibited from negotiating drug prices for seniors, is an outlier.\nAlthough President Trump recently proposed gradually lowering the prices of certain drugs covered by Medicare Part B to international price levels, his proposal does not help the over 150 million Americans who get private health insurance from their employer, many of whom struggle with high deductibles and copayments, or the more than 30 million Americans who are uninsured and must pay the full cash price of their prescription drugs at the pharmacy.\nToday, a full 80 percent of Americans say that drug prices are unreasonable and just nine percent think that drug companies put patients over profits. The pharmaceutical industry will continue to rip off American patients as long as it can. The Prescription Drug Price Relief Act puts an end to this highway robbery, and will help save lives and reduce premiums by lowering drug prices."
legislation_id,l15
h2Text,"Allowing Medicare to Negotiate Lower Drug Prices\n"
bulletList,[
"The bill would strike the non-interference clause and direct the Secretary to negotiate lower prices with drug manufacturers that participate in Medicare Part D. Under current law, the Secretary of HHS is prohibited from negotiating lower drug prices on behalf of Medicare Part D beneficiaries. This is called the “non-interference clause.”",
"The bill would strike the non-interference clause and direct the Secretary to negotiate lower prices with drug manufacturers that participate in Medicare Part D.",
"The bill would direct the Secretary to prioritize negotiating for drugs that place the most burden on seniors and taxpayers: high-cost drugs, drugs that have significant price increases, drugs that drive up Medicare Part D spending, and drugs without competition.",
"The bill would provide for automatic renegotiation of drug prices every three years.",
"The bill would direct the Secretary to further leverage the purchasing power of the government by using drug formularies to enhance competition.",
"The bill would allow Part D plans to use additional benefit design and formulary tools to secure steeper discounts or rebates for beneficiaries.",
"The bill would establish fallback prices based on what other federal agencies and five foreign countries – Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, and Japan – pay. These fallback prices would kick in automatically if negotiations with drug manufacturers are unsuccessful.",
"The bill would preserve critical protections for patient access by including in any formulary certain categories and classes of drugs that are protected under current law and by strengthening the patient appeals processes for Part D plans."
]
h2Text,"Restoring Low-Income Beneficiary Rebates\n"
bulletList,[
"The bill would restore required drug rebates for low-income beneficiaries that were lost when Medicare Part D was created in 2006.",
"CBO has projected that restoring these rebates for brand-name drugs alone would save taxpayers $154 billion over ten years.",
"Before Part D came into effect, people who were eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid received their drug benefits through Medicaid. After Part D was created, these people began receiving their drug benefits through Medicare.",
"Drug manufacturers that participate in Medicaid are required to provide discounts in the form of rebates back to Medicaid, but there are no similar statutory rebates for Medicare.",
"As a result of shifting the drug benefits for these dual-eligible individuals from Medicaid to Medicare, the pharmaceutical industry received a huge windfall of billions of dollars in rebates drug companies were no longer required to pay."
]
h2Text,"Prescription drug prices continue to skyrocket.\n"
pText,"Over the past decade, the prices of 90% of brand name drugs have more than doubled and prescription drug spending reached $333 billion in 2017. In 2015, the average annual cost of therapy for widely used specialty drugs was about $53,000. This is more than twice the median income for people on Medicare and more than three and half times the average Social Security retirement benefit. A 2016 Commonwealth Fund survey found that nearly 20% of people reported not filling prescriptions because they could not afford them.\n"
h2Text,"Medicare pays far more for drugs than government programs that negotiate.\n"
pText,"Under current law, the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is prohibited from negotiating lower drug prices on behalf of Medicare Part D beneficiaries. In contrast, other government programs, like Medicaid and VA, are allowed to negotiate. As a result, Medicare Part D pays on average 73% more than Medicaid and 80% more than VA for brand name drugs. The federal government could save between $15.2 and $16 billion a year if Medicare Part D paid the same prices as Medicaid or VA.\n"
h2Text,"High drug prices continue to stress the federal budget, particularly within Medicare.\n"
pText,"Since 2006, government programs have paid for approximately 40% of the retail prescription drug expenditures in the United States. Medicare paid for 29% of retail drug costs in 2016. In large part as a result of skyrocketing drug prices, total spending on Medicare Part D is projected to more than double during the next 10 years, from $94.5 billion in 2018 to $195 billion in 2027.\n"
h2Text,"Americans fully support negotiating authority for Medicare.\n"
pText,"According to a recent Kaiser Family Foundation poll, 92% of Americans—including, Democrats, Republicans, and Independents—want Medicare to negotiate for lower drug prices. According to the Center for Economic and Policy Research, the U.S. government could save $976 billion over ten years if Medicare negotiated the same prices for drugs as people in Denmark pay.\n"
h2Text,"President Trump claimed repeatedly that he supports negotiating lower drug prices.\n"
pText,"After being elected President, Donald Trump pledged: “I’m going to bring down drug prices.” He also warned that the pharmaceutical industry is “getting away with murder.” He said Americans could save billions of dollars if Medicare were allowed to negotiate directly with drug companies. “We don’t do it,” he said. “Why? Because of the drug companies.” He also said the U.S. must “create new bidding procedures for the drug industry.” He added: “Pharma has a lot of lobbies and a lot of lobbyists and a lot of power, and there’s very little bidding on drugs.” In March 2017, President Trump again criticized “outrageous” drug prices and pledged to create a “fair and competitive bidding process” that would result in prices “coming way, way, way down.” In May 2018, President Trump promised yet again that, “We will have tougher negotiation, more competition, and much lower prices at the pharmacy counter. And it will start to take effect very soon.” President Trump has openly acknowledged that “massive” spending and lobbying by the pharmaceutical industry has driven drug prices, “through the roof.”"
legislation_id,l16
h2Text,"What my plan & legislation does:\n"
pText,"Instructs the secretary of Health and Human Services to put forward regulations allowing wholesalers, pharmacies and individuals to import qualifying prescription drugs from licensed Canadian sellers. After two years, the secretary would have the authority to permit importation from countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) with standards for the approval and sale of prescription drugs that are comparable to those in the United States.\nThe bill includes detailed provisions outlining safeguards and consumer protections that ensure the safety of imported drugs, including FDA certification of foreign sellers, a clear definition of what drugs may be imported and supply chain security requirements.\nLegally imported drugs under the bill must be purchased from an FDA-certified foreign seller and must have the same active ingredient, route of administration and strength as drugs approved in the United States. The new agreement also cracks down on rogue online pharmacies.\nAllowing the importation of safe and affordable prescription drugs is overwhelmingly supported by the American people with 71 percent in favor of allowing Americans to buy prescription drugs from Canada.\n"
h2Text,"Organizations supporting the bill include:\n"
pText,"Alliance for Retired Americans\nAmerican Federation of Teachers\nCenter for Medicare Advocacy\nCREDO\nDailyKos\nEconomic Policy Institute\nJustice in Aging\nMoveOn\nNAACP\nNational Center for Health Research\nNational Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare\nNational Organization for Women\nPharmacyChecker.com\nPrescription Justice\nProgressive Change Campaign Committee\nRxRights\nSocial Security Works\nDemocracy for America\nPatients for Affordable Drugs\nConsumers Union\nNational Nurses United\nand Families USA."
legislation_id,l16-2
h2Text,"What does this plan do?\n"
pText,"The Affordable and Safe Prescription Drug Importation Act would instruct the Secretary of Health and Human Services, within 180 days after enactment of this Act, to issue regulations allowing wholesalers, licensed U.S. pharmacies, and individuals to import qualifying prescription drugs manufactured at FDA-inspected facilities from licensed Canadian sellers. After two years, the Secretary would have the authority to permit importation from countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) that meet specified statutory or regulatory standards that are comparable to U.S. standards.\nThe bill would not permit importation of controlled substances, anesthetic drugs inhaled during surgery, or compounded drugs. Legally imported drugs under this Act must be purchased from an FDA-certified foreign seller and have the same active ingredient(s), route of administration, and strength as drugs approved in the U.S. Certain types of drugs, such as certain biologics, could only be imported by wholesalers or pharmacies.\nIn order to be a “certified foreign seller,” the entity must be a wholesale distributor or licensed foreign pharmacy, be current with any applicable registration fees, and sell only qualifying prescription drugs. Certification criteria include that the establishment: (1) is located in Canada; (2) is engaged in the distribution of prescription drugs offered for importation under this bill; (3) has been in existence for at least five years and has a purpose for existing other than for this program; (4) if selling to an individual, does so only after receiving a valid prescription; (5) can certify that the physical premises and data reporting procedures and licenses are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations in Canada, and has implemented policies to monitor compliance; (6) conducts ongoing and comprehensive quality assurance programs, including blind testing; (7) agrees that laboratories approved by the Secretary shall be used to test product samples; (8) agrees to notify the Secretary, importers, and individuals of product recalls; (9) has a process for resolving grievances and will be held accountable for violations of established rules; (10) does not sell products to customers in the United States that the seller could not otherwise legally sell in Canada; (11) meets any other criteria established by the Secretary. The bill would require recertification every two years or until there is a material change in circumstances.\nCertified foreign sellers shall pay a fee, as determined by the Secretary, to fund the administration and enforcement of the program.\nAdditionally, the bill specifies that individuals importing a prescription drug under this Act shall do so only from pharmacies licensed to practice pharmacy and dispense drugs in Canada, shall purchase only for personal use in quantities that do not exceed a 90-day supply, and must have a valid prescription issued by a health care practitioner licensed to practice in the U.S.\nImporters under this bill are required to submit biannual reports to the Secretary containing information on the drugs they are purchasing from certified foreign sellers, including the name, strength and dosage form, number of containers and container size, lot number, date of the transaction and shipment, business names and addresses of seller and purchaser, and the unique facility identifier where the drug was manufactured.\nThe bill grants the Secretary authority to approve one or more laboratories to conduct random testing of prescription drugs to assess their chemical authenticity.\nThe bill grants the Secretary authority to suspend the importation of a product or suspend all products from a certified foreign seller or importer if there is an importation involving counterfeit drugs, drugs that have been recalled or withdrawn, or drugs in violation of any requirement of this section until an investigation is completed and the Secretary determines that the drug, seller, or importer does not endanger the public health. The Secretary must suspend a product or all products from a seller or importer if there is a pattern of such violations.\nExcept in the case of a drug shortage, the bill prohibits drug manufacturers from directly or indirectly engaging in actions to restrict, prohibit, or delay the importation of qualifying drugs under this program.\nUnder this bill, persons selling adulterated or counterfeit products with the intent to defraud or mislead, with reckless disregard for safety of the public, or knowingly dispensing drugs without a valid prescription, shall face a penalty of not more than 10 years imprisonment or a fine of not more than $250,000.\nThe bill clarifies that nothing under this Act preempts or changes remedies available under state, federal, or common law for civil relief.\nCertified foreign sellers may only purchase drugs intended for importation into the U.S. from FDA-registered manufacturers and entities or other certified foreign sellers, and shall provide to the importer information including the unique facility identifier associated with the manufacturer, the transaction history, transaction information (including the name of the product, the strength and dosage form, the container size, the number of containers, the lot number, the date of the transaction, the date of the shipment, and the business names and addresses of the entities selling and receiving the drug), and a statement that the certified foreign seller did not knowingly ship a suspect or illegitimate product, provide false transaction information or alter the transaction history of the drug. The Secretary shall seek to enter into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) or cooperative agreement with Canada or another permitted country to ensure compliance with Subchapter H of chapter V of the FDCA (track and trace); such MOU or cooperative agreement may supersede these requirements.\nThe Secretary of Health and Human Services shall issue a report to Congress and the public not later than one year after the date the rules are final. GAO shall also conduct a study within 18 months following the final rule to analyze the implementation of the Act, including a review of drug safety and cost-savings and expenses, including cost-savings to consumers in the United States and trans-shipment and importation tracing processes.\n"
h2Text,"Why is this important?\n"
pText,"Americans pay – by far – the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. For three consecutive years, retail prescription drugs have experienced double-digit price increases in the U.S. well above inflation. Americans have seen the price of some drugs skyrocket by as much as 5,000 percent literally overnight.\nIn 2014, the U.S. spent about 40 percent more on prescriptions per person than Canada, twice as much as the average major industrialized country, and more than three times as much as Denmark.\nA 2014 survey by the Commonwealth Fund found nearly twenty percent of the population between the ages of 19 and 64, or 35 million people, did not fill a prescription because they could not afford it, which can lead to unnecessary pain, suffering, and premature death.\nIn order to get the medicine they need, millions of people are buying their prescription drugs from other countries. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, 8 percent of American adults – 19 million people – say they or someone in their household had imported a drug at some point to get a lower price.\nSafety standards regulated by Health Canada and the European Union are as tough as FDA standards, according to a December 2016 bipartisan report from the Senate Special Committee on Aging: “While some countries’ pharmaceutical manufacturing standards are lax, others, particularly in Canada and the European Union, are stringent and comparable to U.S. standards.”\nCanadian officials say U.S. drug prices are so high that they are skewing the cost of those medicines in Canada. Drug prices in Canada are informed by prices in seven other countries, including the United States. Canada’s Minister of Health Jane Philpott recently said she wants to strike the U.S. from that list and replace it with a country like New Zealand, where drug prices are much lower.\nAllowing the importation of safe and affordable prescription drugs is overwhelmingly supported by the American people. According to a September 29, 2016 poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 71 percent favor allowing Americans to buy prescription drugs imported from Canada."
legislation_id,l17
pText,"I want to stress the bipartisan nature of this legislation. We have brought Republicans and Democrats together in a very historic moment. And what that moment is about is that the Senate this afternoon stated that we will not continue participation in the Saudi-led intervention in Yemen, which has resulted in the worst humanitarian crisis on Earth.\nAnd that crisis is about 85,000 children starving to death; 10,000 new cases of cholera every single week; and the United Nations telling us that Yemen is on the verge of imminent famine, with the possibility of millions of people dying, all because of Saudi activities in that civil war.\nAnd today what the United States Senate said in a very loud way is that we will not continue to have our military posture dictated by a despotic, murderous regime in Saudi Arabia – a regime which does not respect democracy, which does not respect human rights, a regime whose leader nobody doubts was involved in the horrific murder of a dissident journalist in the Saudi consulate in Turkey, Jamal Khashoggi.\nToday is a very important breakthrough – both progressives and conservatives have made a profound statement that 45 years after the passage of the War Powers Act, 45 years later, finally the United States Senate has come together to use that authority for the first time and say that the responsibility for war, the constitutional responsibility for war rests with the United States Congress – not the president, whether that president is a Democrat or a Republican.\nAnd I think the historic importance of today is not only moving the United States out of that horrific war, but is having the country see that their elected representatives are about to take back their constitutional responsibilities on the issues of war, one of the most important functions that the United States Congress has."
legislation_id,l18
h2Text,"What does this plan do?\n"
pText,"This bill would prohibit large employers from buying back stock unless they:\n"
bulletList,["Pay all employees at least $15 an hour, including part-time employees, independent contractors, and franchisee employees;", "Allow employees to earn up to 7 days of paid sick leave to be used to care for themselves or a family member; and", "Ensure that CEO compensation (or the highest paid employee) is not more than 150 times the median pay of all employees."]
pText,"Under this legislation, large employers are defined as employers who have more than 500 employees, including part-time workers, independent contractors, and franchisee workers.\nEmployers who violate this Act will be subject to civil fines in the amount of each illegal stock buyback and executive officers will be barred from serving in these roles.\nLast year, four of the Waltons made $12.7 billion dollars in one day. To make as much as those Waltons did in that one day, it would take a Walmart worker working “full-time” earning $11 an hour over 653,000 years. The Walmart Act fixes this gross inequality and rewards workers before shareholders."
h2Text,"Groups supporting my plan include:\n"
pText,"OUR Walmart\nthe United Food and Commercial Workers Union\nGood Jobs Nation\nRestaurant Opportunities Centers United\n"
h2Text,"Experts supporting my plan include:\n"
pText,"Robert Reich\nUC Berkley\nRobert Hockett\nCornell Law School\nStephanie Kelton\nStony Brook\nDarrick Hamilton\nThe New School\n"
h2Text,"Why is this important?\n"
pText,"Last year Walmart made more than $13 billion in profits. Unfortunately, instead of using its profits to  raise their low wages, Walmart plans to buy back $20 billion of its own stock over a two-year period to enrich its executives and shareholders.\nThe Walton family is Walmart’s largest shareholder, owning about 50 percent of its stock. It is also the wealthiest family in the country with a net worth of around $180 billion. Since 1982, the wealth of the Walton family has increased about 10,000 percent. This one family owns more wealth than the bottom 40 percent of Americans. Meanwhile, 55 percent of Walmart’s associates are food insecure.\nIf Walmart can afford $20 billion for stock buybacks to enrich the likes of the Waltons, it can afford to raise the pay of its workers to a living wage. It would cost Walmart $3.8 billion a year to raise its minimum wage to $15 an hour and would benefit nearly 1 million workers. Even though Walmart claims it cannot afford to pay its workers $15 an hour, it was able to find enough money to pay its CEO more than $22 million last year – or almost $11,000 an hour. If Walmart can pay its CEO $11,000 an hour, it can afford to increase the wages of its workers to a living wage."
legislation_id,l19
pText,"Emergency Legislation to Help Struggling Dairy Farmers\nVermont’s dairy farmers are struggling to survive. The price they get for their milk has been below the cost of production for four years in a row. Since 2014, dairy prices have fallen from $25 per hundredweight to less than $16. That’s less than farmers received in 1989.\nNot surprisingly, Vermont has already lost more than 65 dairy farms this year alone and about one-third of its dairy farms in the last decade. Today, there are just 709 active dairy farms left in Vermont.\n“This is a crisis,” Sanders said. “Hard-working farmers are losing their livelihoods, their homes and their way of life. And, as farms disappear, so do the businesses and jobs they support. And so does Vermont’s iconic working landscape, as dairy farming still accounts for 80 percent of all farmland in our state.”\n“The loss of farms is a harbinger for declining rural viability, and it’s happening all across rural America,” Sanders said. “We can’t let that happen.”\nSanders’ bill gives priority for emergency payments to farmers that live in states where the cost of milk production is higher than the national average, and to farmers with smaller operations. Both of these measures will benefit Vermont’s family farmers.\nIn 2009, Sanders successfully secured $350 million in emergency funding to support dairy farmers throughout the U.S. That legislation meant an average of $8,000 in emergency federal support for a Vermont dairy farmer with a 125-cow herd.\n“Farmers clearly need our help now. This is a matter of survival,” Sanders said. “However, while this bill will provide temporary relief, ultimately we need a sustainable, long-term solution to ensure farmers receive a fair price for the high-quality milk they produce. To my mind, that has got to include managing the supply of milk. We must also take a hard look at consolidation in dairy processing and distribution, and whether we need stronger antitrust laws to protect consumers and producers alike.”\nSanders also sent a letter to U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue on Thursday to urge the agency to use its authority to purchase dairy products to be distributed to food shelters nationally.\n“Right now, we have a situation where our dairy farmers are struggling to survive because of extremely low milk prices. We are producing too much milk and far too many Americans – including millions of children – go to bed hungry because they do not have enough to eat,” Sanders said. “I urge Secretary Perdue to use the authority he already has to purchase and distribute dairy products through the Emergency Food Assistance Program. This will help farmers, as well as millions of Americans who struggle to put food on the table.”\nSanders’ office has organized a series of listening sessions with Vermont dairy farmers to get their input on how to improve milk prices and the long-term viability of dairy farming. The first discussion will be held this Friday in Middlebury, Vermont. "
legislation_id,l20
h2Text,"Make Election Day a National Holiday\n"
pText,"I have proposed a plan to designate \"Democracy Day\" as a national election holiday to make it easier for Americans to vote.\nNationwide, preliminary indications are that the total turnout for the 2014 elections was only 36.6 percent, according to the United States Elections Project at the University of Florida.\nIn America, we should be celebrating our democracy and doing everything possible to make it easier for people to participate in the political process. Election Day should be a national holiday so that everyone has the time and opportunity to vote. While this would not be a cure-all, it would indicate a national commitment to create a more vibrant democracy.\nWe should not be satisfied with a \"democracy\" in which more than 60 percent of our people don't vote and some 80 percent of young people and low-income Americans fail to vote. We can and must do better than that. While we must also focus on campaign finance reform and public funding of elections, establishing an Election Day holiday would be an important step forward."
legislation_id,l21
pText,"My Stop B.E.Z.O.S. Act gives large employers a choice: pay workers a living wage or pay for the public assistance programs low-wage workers are forced to rely upon.\nThis bill would establish a corporate welfare tax on large employers equal to the amount of federal benefits received by their low-wage workers. For example, if a worker at a large employer receives $300 in food stamps, the employer would be taxed $300.\nUnder this legislation, large employers are defined as employers who have more than 500 employees, including part-time workers, independent contractors and franchise workers. Federal benefits are defined as: the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Medicaid, the school lunch program and Section 8 housing. Additionally, the bill makes it unlawful for a large employer to ask employees whether or not they qualify for federal benefits. Finally, the IRS, in consultation with USDA, HUD and CMS will issue regulations necessary to administer the corporate welfare tax.\nThe fact is if employers in this country simply paid workers a living wage, taxpayers would save about $150 billion a year on federal assistance programs. Large companies, not taxpayers, should be required to pay for federal public assistance programs that their employees are eligible to receive.\n"
h2Text,"Large Profitable Corporations Pay Their Employees Poverty Wages\n"
pText,"In America today, far too many large, profitable corporations pay their employees poverty wages, causing workers to rely on government assistance programs like Medicaid, food stamps and public housing to make ends meet. All of these programs are paid for by the American taxpayer. In fact, low wages cost taxpayers $152.8 billion per year, according to a 2015 study from the University of California, Berkeley Labor Center.\nHere are just a few examples:\n"
bulletList,["Walmart pays its associates wages so low that many of them are forced to rely on food stamps, Medicaid and public housing to survive at a cost to U.S. taxpayers of an estimated $6.2 billion a year", "Low wages at McDonald's alone cost the federal government and U.S. taxpayers over $1.2 billion a year, while 52 percent of all fast food workers rely upon public assistance programs to survive.", "According to The New Food Economy, 1 out of 3 Amazon workers in Arizona and 2,400 in Pennsylvania and Ohio depend on food stamps to put food on the table.", "According to a recent survey, some 27 percent of workers at American Airlines subsidiary Envoy Air make wages so low that they rely on food stamps and other forms of public assistance to survive."]
legislation_id,l22
pText,"The goal of my legislation is really pretty simple: to improve and expand access to dental care for veterans throughout the country. Today, millions of veterans have access to timely, high-quality health care through the VA.  However, very few of these veterans have access to dental care through the VA. To my mind, this doesn’t make sense. The evidence is very clear that a person’s oral health is directly linked to a person’s general health.\nIf a person has oral health problems – problems with their teeth or their gums – those problems can cause serious diseases and illnesses, everything from heart disease to premature births.\n"
h2Text,"What does my plan do?\n"
bulletList,["Creates a three-year pilot program to test the idea of ensuring all veterans who are eligible for VA health care are also eligible for VA dental care.",
"Gives the VA the authority to provide restorative dental care services to veterans. That means if the VA pulls a veteran’s tooth to prepare them for surgery, they will be able to then furnish the veteran with dentures or implants. We know that missing teeth can have a huge impact on a person’s life. It can affect their mental health, their ability to get or keep a job, or – quite simply – make it hard for them to eat.",
"Empowers the VA to provide veterans education and training on effective oral hygiene. That’s another common-sense, low-cost solution that will help veterans take care of themselves, prevent problems and save the system money.",
"Requires the VA to build or lease a dental clinic in any state that doesn’t already have one. This is essential to veterans in Vermont since the VA does not currently offer any onsite dental care at any of the eight facilities that serve Vermont’s veterans.",
"Allows the VA to carry out a demonstration program that uses alternative dental care providers – like those who will be trained through Vermont Technical College’s new dental therapy program – as a low-cost way of improving access to dental care for veterans.",
"Finally, my legislation includes a provision that would extend access to dental care to veterans who are eligible for VA health care due to toxic exposures. Many veterans from the Vietnam War, and other eras who were exposed to toxic chemicals by their own government, have terrible problems with their teeth. I think we should all be able to agree that these veterans deserve to have their oral health care covered."]
pText,"Right now, there are veterans out there who are suffering because Congress hasn’t made sure that our laws have kept pace with the medical community. I think we owe it to our veterans to right this wrong. We owe it to veterans to make sure the VA is leading the way."
legislation_id,l23
pText,"My plan prevents people from being locked up before trial solely because they cannot afford their bail.\nPoverty is not a crime and hundreds of thousands of Americans, convicted of nothing, should not be in jail today because they cannot afford cash bail. In the year 2018, in the United States, we should not continue having a ‘debtor prison’ system. Our destructive and unjust cash bail process is part of our broken criminal justice system – and must be ended.\n"
h2Text,"My No Money Bail Act does the following:\n"
bulletList,["Formally ends the use of secured bonds in federal criminal proceedings.",
"Provides grants to states that wish to implement alternate pretrial systems and reduce their pretrial detention population.",
"Withholds grant funding from states that continue to use money bail systems.",
"Requires a study three years after implementation to ensure the new alternate systems are also not leading to disparate detentions rates."]
pText,"The money bail system is irrational and dangerous. People who are not at high risk but are poor remain incarcerated, while people who may be dangerous are set free if they have the funds. It’s maddening to see that those with money can buy their freedom while poor defendants languish behind bars while awaiting trial,” Lieu said. “I’m grateful Sen. Sanders is introducing a bill that moves to end our justice system’s reliance on money bail. I previously introduced legislation in the House that addresses this issue and I look forward to working with Senator Sanders. The money bail system warrants sustained outrage because America should never be a nation where freedom is based on cash on hand.\nMy plan is supported by the ACLU, Brennan Center and Color of Change.\n"
h2Text,"Why is this important?\n"
pText,"The United States has the highest incarceration rate in the world, which is bad enough on its own. But what’s even worse is nearly a quarter of all people incarcerated on any given day in the U.S. are “unconvicted”—meaning they are sitting in jail waiting for a trial, or plea bargain, or some sort of conclusion to their case.\nStudy after study has shown the average American could not come up with $400 in an emergency, and people in prison tend to start out poorer than most Americans, with average earnings of less than $20,000 annually prior to incarceration. If you are making that little, chances are you do not have a spare $1,000 set aside in case of emergency, and you will have no choice but to sit in jail awaiting your trial—or more likely, your plea deal.\nPretrial detention is bad for society and bad for our criminal justice system. People held pretrial are missing days of work. They are missing time with their families. Often enough, they run the risk of missing a rent payment and losing their housing. Studies have shown people are more likely to take a plea bargain just to end their pretrial detention that much sooner.\nMeanwhile, the U.S. spends nearly $14 billion each year locking people up without a conviction. It’s clear the system is a poor use of resources—in 2015, the city of New Orleans collected $4.5 million in bail, fines, and fees, but spent $6.4 million detaining people who couldn’t afford to pay their bail, fine, or fee. And as with so many other aspects of our society, for-profit companies are making a fortune off poor defendants. The for-profit bail industry makes between $1.4 and $2.4 billion each year—the United States is one of only two countries in the world that even allows for-profit bond companies.\nIt has always been clear that we have separate criminal justice systems in this country for the poor and for the rich. A wealthy person charged with a serious crime may get an ankle monitor and told not to leave the country; a poor person charged with a misdemeanor may sit in a jail cell. And this disproportionately affects minorities—fifty percent of all pretrial detainees are Black or Latinx.\nPretrial detention should be based on whether or not someone truly should not be freed before their trial. It should not depend on how much money they have, or what kind of mood the judge is in on a given day, or even what judge the case happens to come before. We also must insure that jurisdictions do not eliminate cash bail but find pretexts to continue unfairly locking people up before trial."
legislation_id,l24
h2Text,"My Social Security Administration Fairness Act would:\n"
bulletList,["Set SSA’s administrative funding at 1.5 percent of overall benefit payments.",
"Eliminate the five-month waiting period for approved SSDI recipients and the 2-year waiting period for SSDI beneficiaries to qualify to receive Medicare.",
"Implement a moratorium on all closures of field offices and contact stations."]
pText,"Social Security is the most successful government program in our nation’s history— keeping millions of seniors, widows, dependent children, and people with disabilities out of poverty for over 80 years.\nHistorically, the agency that has provided these fundamental benefits to millions and millions of Americans has been grossly undervalued and understaffed by budget and political cycles that fail to respond to the needs of the public. Since 1970, the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) funding has gone down 34 percent per beneficiary, adjusting for inflation. In 2017, SSA was asked to support over 70 million Americans with 1.3 percent in administrative funding. To put this in perspective, private life insurance companies spend 19 percent and private-sector-defined benefit plans spend three percent on administrative costs, respectively.\nIn recent years, SSA’s budget has declined nine percent since 2010, while the number of beneficiaries has gone up more than 15 percent. This has resulted in the loss of more than 10,000 employees, the closure of all rural contact centers, and over 10 percent of all field offices nationwide. And these funding cuts have had an unconscionable human cost—last year alone, 10,000 people died and thousands more lost their homes or declared bankruptcy while waiting on a disability decision.\nThe Social Security Administration Fairness Act will give SSA the funding it needs to provide services that Americans have paid for and certainly deserve. This legislation will restore timely service to beneficiaries, address the one million person disability backlog, speed up the time it takes for seniors and persons with disabilities to receive Social Security and Medicare benefits, and prevent the SSA from closing field offices that provide essential services to the American people.\nSocial Security is a lifeline for many seniors and individuals with disabilities. It is our duty to expand and strengthen the program and agency that has served the American public with diligence and dignity since the Great Depression.\n"
h2Text,"Organizational Endorsements:\n"
pText,"AFGE, AFL-CIO, Alliance for Retired Americans, Center for Medicare Advocacy, Justice in Aging, Medicare Rights Center, National Committee to Preserve Social Security & Medicare, National Council of Social Security Management Associations, National Organization of Social Security Claimants Representatives, Social Security Works, Special Needs Alliance, Strengthen Social Security Coalition, and The Arc."
legislation_id,l25
pText,"In order to strengthen America's middle class, we have to restore workers' rights to bargain for better wages, benefits, and working conditions. That is the goal of the Workplace Democracy Act.\n"
h2Text,"The Workplace Democracy Act would:\n"
bulletList,["Make it easier for workers to form unions through a majority sign up process. This section would allow the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) to certify a union as the collective bargaining representative if a majority of eligible workers join sign valid authorization cards and the NLRB verifies that majority. Workers will get to elect which process to use to form unions, rather than allowing employers to dictate the course of action.", "Ensure companies can’t prevent a union from forming by denying a first contract. This section would require an employer to begin negotiating within 10 days after certification. If no agreement is reached after 90 days of negotiation, either party can request compulsory mediation. If no first contract is reached after 30 more days of mediation, the parties would submit the remaining issues to binding arbitration."]
pText,"There is no doubt that union membership is good for workers. According to data released in early 2015 from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, union workers’ wages are 27 percent higher than for nonunion workers. 79 percent of unionized workers receive health insurance from their employers, compared to only 49 percent of nonunion workers. 76 percent of union workers have guaranteed defined-benefit pension plans, compared to only 16 percent of nonunion workers, and 83 percent of union workers receive paid with sick leave compared to only 62 percent of nonunion workers.\nToday, corporate profits are at an all-time high, while wages as a percentage of the economy are near an all-time low. The middle class is disappearing, nearly 47 million Americans are living in poverty, and the gap between the very rich and everyone else is growing wider and wider.\nThere are many reasons for the growing inequality in our economy, but perhaps the most significant reason for the disappearing middle class is that the rights of workers to join together and bargain for better wages, benefits, and working conditions have been severely undermined. According to the most recent statistics:\n- If an employee is engaged in a union organizing campaign, that employee has a one in five chance of getting fired.\n- Half of all employers threaten to close or relocate their businesses if workers elect to form a union.\n- When workers become interested in forming unions, 92 percent of private-sector employers force employees to attend closed-door meetings to hear anti-union propaganda; 80 percent require supervisors to attend training sessions on attacking unions; 78 percent require that supervisors deliver anti-union messages to workers they oversee; and 75 percent hire outside consultants to run anti-union campaigns.\n- Even when workers overcome these enormous obstacles and win union elections, 52 percent of these new unions still do not have a first contract for workers a year after the election, according to the Economic Policy Institute."
legislation_id,l26
h2Text,"Section 1. Short Title\n"
h2Text,"Section 2. Prohibition Of Certain Marketing And Distribution Practices With Respect To Opioids\n"
bulletList,[
"Bans any form of direct-to-consumer marketing of an opioid that falsely suggests that the product has no addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining qualities or risks; companies in violation of this provision will be fined 25 percent of the profits from their opioid products",
"Prevents companies from supplying a state or a community with a quantity of opioids that is not medically reasonable.",
"Requires an invididual to report to the HHS Secretary any pattern of orders of opioids that would seem medically unreasonable.",
"Bans individuals who work for a company that manufactures or distributes an opioid product from engaging in certain marketing and distribution practices.",
"Creates criminal liability for top company executives. Penalties include fines equal to the executive’s compensation package, or a minimum of ten years in prison",
"Requires a company found liable for contributing to the opioid epidemic to be fined $7.8 billion, in addition to the penalties listed above, to offset the total economic impact of the crisis",
"Establishes an “Opioid Reimbursement Fund”, administered by the HHS Secretary in consultation with the FDA; all penalties collected under this Act will be deposited in the Fund",
"Gives priority for receipt of such funds to SAMHSA, DOL, DOJ and the Dept. of Ed., as well as to Head Start programs."]
h2Text,"Section 3. Reduced Exclusivity\n"
bulletList,[
"Penalizes drug manufacturers who illegally advertise, market or distribute an opioid product by stripping them of any remaining period of market exclusivity for such product.",
"Reduces the remaining period of market exclusivity by one half of the time remaining for all other opioid products made by the company.",
"Prohibits any new or additional exclusivity from being awarded to the offending drug manufacturer with an application for an opioid product before the FDA or for a product advertised as a result of product hopping."]
h2Text,"SEC 4. Reimbursement For Opioids Developed Using Federal Funding\n"
bulletList,[
"Requires any drug manufacturer or distributor that violates this Act and that received federal funding to develop the opioid to reimburse the amount of federal funding received"]
h2Text,"Section 5. Treatment Of Certain Taxpayers Violating Illegal Marketing And Distribution Practices\n"
bulletList,[
"Prohibits manufacturers who are found to be in violation of this Act from receiving certain tax credits and requires them to pay an increased amount in taxes that is equal to the amount that they would have received in tax credits."]
legislation_id,l27
pText,"My plan gives states a meaningful role in the development and approval of reactor shutdown plans and post-shutdown license transfers.\nCommunities experiencing the safety and economic impacts of nuclear plant decommissioning deserve a role in shaping those decommissioning plans for nuclear reactors near them. This input is especially critical given the potential for non-operational plants to sit for decades before removal and decontamination. This legislation would transform a process that is weighted almost entirely toward the power plant licensees into one that strikes a reasonable balance between licensees and the impacted communities.\nWelch, who is introducing companion legislation in the House, said, “Vermonters are well aware that decommissioning a nuclear power plant has an enormous economic and environmental impact on states and neighboring communities. It is essential that state and local leaders have a seat at the table throughout the decommissioning process. This commonsense legislation ensures the decommissioning process is transparent, inclusive and collaborative so that all interested parties are heard.”\nThe Vermont Yankee nuclear power plant in Vernon was shuttered at the end of 2014 and the current owner has proposed selling the plant. This bill would give affected states like Vermont an opportunity to weigh in on the new shut down plan in the instance of a license transfer.\n"
bulletList,[
"The legislation would require licensees to consult with the host state as well as state governments within 50 miles of the plant when drafting a proposed decommissioning plan. This consultation would help ensure that state and local concerns are considered.",
"The measure also would require the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to solicit public input on the proposed decommissioning plan and would require the NRC to evaluate and formally adopt or reject the input of the affected states, thereby improving accountability and transparency.",
"If a host state supports the proposed plan or license transfer, the licensee can secure formal NRC approval in an expedited fashion. Otherwise, the NRC must consider amending the proposed plan based on the host state’s recommendations."]
legislation_id,l28
pText,"It is unconscionable that in the wealthiest nation in the world we have allowed our fellow citizens to suffer for so long. The full resources of the United States must be brought to bear on this crisis, for as long as is necessary.\nBut we cannot simply rebuild Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands the way they were. We must go forward to create a strong, sustainable economy and energy system in both territories and address inequities in federal law that have allowed the territories to fall behind in almost every measurable social and economic criteria.\nMy plan addresses seven components necessary to rebuild and move the islands forward:\n"
h2Text,"1. Debt and Privatization\n"
pText,"Puerto Rico’s debt must be addressed to ensure the territory can recover with dignity. Congress must also prevent the privatization of public institutions to benefit creditors in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Puerto Rico is struggling with an unsustainable $74.8 billion of debt, much of which is held by Wall Street creditors, with an additional $49 billion in unpaid pension obligations. The territories’ recovery should not add to existing debt.\n"
h2Text,"2. Resilient and Renewable Energy\n"
pText,"Instead of simply rebuilding an antiquated, centralized and inefficient system dependent on imported fossil fuels, the bill ensures the electric grids will be rebuilt to be more renewable and resilient, to provide less expensive electricity and create local jobs.\n"
h2Text,"3. Medicaid and Medicare Parity\n"
pText,"The health care systems in the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico were inadequate before the hurricanes made landfall, in large part because they receive far fewer federal dollars compared to states. The bill makes Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands eligible for the same Medicare and Medicaid benefits as the rest of America.\n"
h2Text,"4. Rebuild and Improve the VA Hospital and Clinics\n"
pText,"Appropriates necessary funds to the VA for veterans in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.\n"
h2Text,"5. Improve Public Schools, Colleges, and Childcare Facilities\n"
pText,"In addition to rebuilding damaged schools and childcare facilities, we must face the fact that many of these facilities were inadequate before the storms hit. Hundreds of public schools in Puerto Rico have been closed because of austerity policies and schools in the Virgin Islands are struggling to prepare students for college and future careers. The bill appropriates necessary funds for services and facilities for public Head Start, elementary, secondary and higher education.\n"
h2Text,"6. Invest in Infrastructure and Spur Economic Development\n"
pText,"Underfunded infrastructure in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands contributed to the severity of the damage from Hurricanes Irma and Maria. In addition to rebuilding damaged facilities, the legislation would make significant investments in the islands’ physical infrastructure to spur the local economy and create jobs.\n"
h2Text,"7. Environmental Cleanup\n"
pText,"Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands have significant environmental contamination related to the hurricanes, prior pollution and a legacy of military bombing exercises on Vieques. The legislation would provide grants to the EPA, the Department of the Interior and the Department of Defense for environmental remediation.\n"
legislation_id,l31
pText,"My plan authorizes and appropriates funds to increase veterans access to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health care, including by:\n"
bulletList,["Hiring primary and specialty care physicians and other medical staff", "Establishing medical residency programs and increasing residency positions, and", "Improving VA health facility infrastructure."]
pText,"There are currently over 45,000 vacancies in the VA health care system, including about 36,000 in frontline care positions. Meanwhile, there are currently 9.3 million veterans enrolled in the VA health care system. In 2018, the VA is projected to see 7 million unique patients, up from 6.9 million in 2017, and that number will continue to rise in the coming years.\nSupporting our veterans is one of our most important commitments as a country. Strengthening the VA health care system has long been one of my priorities in the Senate. It’s absolutely essential that we provide the VA with the resources it needs to serve these veterans.\nThe Strengthening Veterans Health Care Act of 2017 would allocate $5 billion to the VA to hire more doctors, nurses and other medical professionals to fill these vacancies and ensure that veterans continue to get the best care in a timely manner.\nIn 2014, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and I worked to enact legislation to expand hospitals and clinics run by the Department of Veterans Affairs and to hire more doctors and nurses to provide timely and quality care for veterans, which passed the Senate 93-3."
legislation_id,l32
pText,"My plan prohibits federal agencies and nonprofit entities that conduct federally funded health care research from providing a patent for a drug based on such research until the entity receiving the patent enters into a reasonable pricing agreement with the Department of Health and Human Services."
legislation_id,l33
pText,"At a time when the youth unemployment rate is over 17 percent, and the African American youth unemployment rate is over 27 percent, we have got to do everything we can to make sure that young Americans have the jobs they need to pay for a college education and to move up the economic ladder.\nMy 'Employ Young Americans Now' plan will provide $5.5 billion in immediate funding to employ one million young Americans in summer and year round jobs; and will provide hundreds of thousands of young Americans with the job training and skills they need for the jobs of the future.\nUnder my plan, the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) would provide $4 billion in grants to states and local governments to:\n"
bulletList,["provide summer and year round employment opportunities for low-income youth, with direct links to academic and occupational learning; and", "provide important services such as transportation or child care, necessary to enable young Americans to participate in job opportunities."]
pText,"Each state that would like to participate in this program would have to submit a plan to DOL that must include:\n"
bulletList,["strategies and activities to provide summer employment opportunities and year-round employment opportunities for low-income youth, including links to educational activities;", "identifying employment opportunities in emerging or in-demand occupations;", "identifying employment opportunities in the public or nonprofit sector that meet community needs; and", "an estimate of the number of youth expected to be placed in employment opportunities."]
pText,"Under this legislation, DOL would also award $1.5 billion in competitive grants to local areas to provide work-based training to low-income youth and disadvantaged young adults.\nThrough this bill, DOL will award grant applications to local areas that have the ability to:\n"
bulletList,["implement effective strategies and activities to provide unemployed, low-income youth and disadvantaged young adults with the skills needed for employment;", "provide opportunities for on-the-job training, and registered apprenticeship programs;", "provide connections to immediate work opportunities; paid internships; enrollment in community colleges; or basic education and training for low-income young adults; and", "develop partnerships with employers and employer associations, community colleges, and other postsecondary education institutions; community-based organizations; joint labor-management committees; and work-related intermediaries."]
pText,"Most of this funding is targeted to areas of high youth unemployment and poverty. There is a small state minimum to ensure that every state in this country is able to create jobs and provide job training opportunities to young Americans.\nMy plan is endorsed by the AFL-CIO, AFSCME, UAW, the United Steelworkers of America, Campaign for America’s Future, and the National Employment Law Project."
legislation_id,l34
pText,"My Community Health Center and Primary Care Workforce Expansion plan would dramatically expand, and make permanent, these four programs that are vital to the health of millions of Americans.\nSpecifically, my plan does the following:\n"
bulletList,["Increases funding for FQHCs from $5.1 billion in FY18 to $12.5 billion in FY27. Health centers will have the capacity to serve twice as many people by 2028, from 25 million today to 50 million – mirroring the goals set forth in the 2016 Democratic Platform.", "Significantly increases funding for the NHSC over ten years from $850 million in FY18 to $1.5 billion in FY27. Today, 59 million Americans live in designated primary care shortage areas, 97 million live in mental and behavioral health care shortage areas, and 47 million in dental health care shortage areas.", "Increases funding for THCGME from $176 million in FY18 to $260 million in FY27. Teaching Health Centers are in 27 states and 75 percent are FQHCs. Nearly 4 in 10 THC graduates – compared with 2 percent of traditional medical residents – become primary care providers in non-profit, community health centers in underserved communities.", "Provides robust funding for Nurse Practitioner Residency Training programs. Starting at $35 million in FY18 increasing to $80 million by FY27. A 2010 report from the Institute of Medicine on the future of the nursing workforce recommended implementing nursing residency training programs to ensure APNs had adequate training in community-based settings.", "Authorizes and appropriates over $18 billion for capital projects to invest in the infrastructure and expand the physical capacity of the over 1,400 FQHCs in the United States.", "Creates a formula to steadily increase and continue funding for every year after FY2027 to account for the growing need so these vital programs never again face the threat of a funding cliff."]
legislation_id,l39
pText,"My 'Keep our Pension Promises' plan will protect earned pension benefits and strengthen multiemployer pension plans for participating employers and workers.\nSpecifically, my plan will:\n"
h2Text,"Protect retirees by restoring the anti-cutback rule\n"
pText,"These pensions were earned by individuals through a lifetime of hard work and are crucial to their retirement security. This bill would restore anti-cutbacks rules so that retirees in financially troubled multi-employer pension plans will not see their earned pension benefits cut.\n"
h2Text,"Strengthen multi-employer pension plans\n"
pText,"This bill gives participating employers relief from having to shoulder the full financial burden and risk of underfunded “orphaned” participants, workers and retirees whose former employers went bankrupt or pulled out of the plan without paying everything they owed. This will help ensure that plans can become financially secure and strong.\n"
h2Text,"Provide additional funding to help protect retirees and the PBGC\n"
pText,"A legacy fund would be created within the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) to help ensure that participants in financially troubled plans will continue to receive the benefits they depend upon. The cost to shore up the PBGC and create this legacy fund would be covered by closing tax loopholes used by the very wealthy to accumulate expensive artwork and hundreds of millions of dollars in tax-advantaged savings.\n"
h2Text,"Protect employers participating in multi-employer plans\n"
pText,"This bill ensures pension obligations are prioritized during bankruptcies. This helps the remaining employers by making it less likely they become responsible for underfunded plans."
legislation_id,l40
h2Text,"Eliminates tuition and fees at public four-year colleges and universities for those making up to $125,000 and makes community college tuition- and fee-free for all\n"
pText,"This legislation would provide at least $41 billion per year to states and tribes to eliminate undergraduate tuition and fees at public colleges and universities and institutions of higher education controlled by tribes. Under this legislation, students from any family making $125,000 or less—about 80% of our population—would be able to attend a public four-year college or university, or four-year tribal college or university, tuition- and fee-free. All students—regardless of income—would also be able to attend community colleges tuition- and fee-free.\nUnder the College for All Act, the federal government would cover 67% of the cost of eliminating tuition and fees at public colleges and universities and tribal institutions of higher education. States and tribes would be responsible for eliminating the remaining 33% of the costs.\nTo qualify for federal funding, states and tribes must meet a number of requirements designed to protect students, ensure quality, and reduce ballooning costs. States and tribes will need to maintain spending on their higher education systems, on academic instruction, and on need-based financial aid. In addition, colleges and universities must reduce their reliance on low-paid adjunct faculty.\nNo funding under this legislation may be used to fund administrator salaries, merit-based financial aid, or the construction of non-academic buildings like stadiums and student centers.\n"
h2Text,"Cuts student loan interest rates in half\n"
pText,"The College for All Act would cut all student loan interest rates in half by restoring a similar policy that was in effect until 2006. If enacted today, student loan interest rates for new undergraduate borrowers would drop from 3.76% to just 1.88%. In addition, the legislation ensures that rates for undergraduates never rise above 5% and that rates for non-undergraduate borrowers never rise above 8.25%.\n"
h2Text,"Allows Americans to re-finance student loans at the lowest interest rate possible\n"
pText,"The College for All Act would enable existing borrowers to refinance their loans based on the interest rates available to new borrowers. Today, Americans can refinance their home loans with an interest rate of less than 4%, but millions of Americans with high student loan interest rates are unable to refinance their student loan debt.\n"
h2Text,"Prevents the federal government from profiting off of the student loan programs\n"
pText,"Over the next decade, the federal government is projected to make over $70 billion in profit off of the student loan program. The College for All Act would end the absurdity of the government profiting off of student loan programs, make college more affordable for millions of Americans, and provide relief for millions of others who are struggling to pay off their student loan debt.\n"
h2Text,"Ensures students can attend college without taking on massive debt\n"
pText,"Today, the average student takes on over $30,000 in debt to get a bachelor’s degree from a four-year college or university. The College for All Act would substantially reduce student debt by eliminating tuition and fees and using existing aid to combat the full cost of college. The bill:\n"
bulletList,["Ensures low-income students getting a Pell Grant can use this aid for books, housing, transportation, and the other costs of college—and not for tuition and fees.",
"Requires states and tribes participating in the College for All Act to cover the full cost of college for their poorest students—filling in the cost gap that may remain after the elimination of tuition and fees and grant aid are taken into account for these students.",
"Provides a dollar-for-dollar match for states and tribes that provide extra funding to reduce the cost of college beyond eliminating tuition and fees. States and tribes would also be able to use funding to increase academic opportunities for students, hire new faculty, and provide professional development opportunities for professors.",
"Triples our current investment in the Work-Study Program, which provides an average award of about $1,670 a year, so that it can reach about 2.1 million students (1.4 million more than today) and focuses funding on schools that enroll high numbers of low-income students."]
h2Text,"Eliminates or reduces tuition and fees for low-income students at private colleges and universities that serve historically underrepresented minorities\n"
pText,"The act provides at least $1.3 billion per year to eliminate or significantly reduce tuition and fees for low-income students at two- and four-year, private nonprofit Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and private nonprofit Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) that serve a student body that is composed of at least 35% low-income students. About 200 schools would be eligible to participate.\n"
h2Text,"Provides funding to eliminate equity gaps in higher education attainment\n"
pText,"The legislation doubles funding for the TRIO Programs and increases funding for the GEAR UP Program so more first-generation and low-income students can enroll in and graduate college. This means that TRIO Programs would reach 1.5 million students and GEAR UP would reach over 100,000 more students than it currently does.\n"
h2Text,"Paid for by a tax on Wall Street speculation\n"
pText,"The estimated $600 billion cost of this legislation would be paid for by a separate bill to tax Wall Street speculation. During the financial crisis, Wall Street received the largest taxpayer bailout in the history of the world. Now, it’s Wall Street’s turn to help rebuild the disappearing middle class. By imposing a small Wall Street speculation tax of just 0.5% on stock trades (that’s just 50 cents for every $100 worth of stock), a 0.1% fee on bonds, and a 0.005% fee on derivatives, we would raise at least $600 billion over the next decade. More than 1,000 economists have endorsed a tax on Wall Street speculation and some 40 countries have already imposed a similar financial transactions tax, including Britain, Germany, France, Switzerland, South Korea, Hong Kong, and Brazil.\n"
h2Text,"NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS THAT HAVE ENDORSED THE COLLEGE FOR ALL ACT OF 2017:\n".capitalized
pText,"American Indian Higher Education Consortium (AIHEC)\nAmerican Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME)\nAmerican Federation of Teachers (AFT)\nAmerican Association of University Professors (AAUP)\nAsian American & Pacific Islander Association of Colleges and Universities (APIACU)\nCenter for Community Change\nThe Center for Law and Social Policy (CLASP)\nCollege Success Foundation\nCouncil for Opportunity in Education (COE)\nDemos Action\nGeneration Progress\nHigher Ed, Not Debt\nLeague of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC)\nMoveOn.org\nNational Education Association (NEA)\nService Employees International Union (SEIU)\nSoutheast Asia Resource Action Center (SEARAC)\nStudent Debt Crisis\nUnited States Student Association (USSA)\n"
h2Text,"STATE-BASED ORGANIZATIONS THAT HAVE ENDORSED THE COLLEGE FOR ALL ACT OF 2017:\n".capitalized
pText,"AFT-Oregon\nConnecticut Young Democrats (CTYD)\nGraduate Assistants United - University of Rhode Island, AAUP-RI\nHBCU Student Action (North Carolina)\nMassachusetts Teachers Association (MTA)\nPublic Higher Education Network of Massachusetts (PHENOM)\nSEIU Massachusetts State Council\nTuition Free Illinois\nUniversity Student Senate of the City University of New York\nVermont-NEA\nWashington Student Association\nYoung Democrats of Rhode Island\n"
legislation_id,l42
pText,"My 'Corporate Tax Dodging Prevention' plan would prevent corporations from sheltering profits in tax havens like Bermuda and the Cayman Islands and would stop rewarding companies that ship jobs and factories overseas with tax breaks. The bill would likely raise at least $1 trillion in revenue over ten years. Specifically, it would reform the tax code by:\n"
h2Text,"1. Ending the rule allowing American corporations to defer paying federal income tax on profits of their offshore subsidiaries. (Section 2)\n"
pText,"Current law allows American corporations to defer paying U.S. income tax on profits of their offshore subsidiaries until those profits are “repatriated” (officially brought to the U.S.) which may not happen for years, if ever. As a result, American corporations would rather report foreign profits than domestic profits to the I.R.S. Deferral therefore creates an incentive to either move operations and jobs to a lower-tax country, or to use accounting gimmicks to make U.S. profits appear to be earned in a lower-tax country.\nThe Congressional Research Service has indicated that the cost of this tax avoidance to the U.S. Treasury approaches or exceeds $100 billion annually. This bill would crack down on this tax avoidance by ending the rule allowing deferral of U.S. income tax on offshore profits.\nUnder this legislation, American corporations would still be allowed a credit that reduces their federal income tax liability by an amount equal to income taxes paid to foreign governments on these profits. This foreign tax credit exists under current law and already prevents double-taxation of profits.\n"
h2Text,"2. Transitioning to new rules by imposing a one-time tax of 35 percent on profits currently held offshore by American corporations. (Section 2)\n"
pText,"American corporations are officially holding nearly $2.5 trillion in profits offshore. In many cases this money is actually located in the U.S. or invested in U.S. assets, but the companies are allowed to defer U.S. taxes on these profits because they are officially held by their foreign subsidiaries. These profits would be subject to the U.S. corporate tax at the full rate of 35 percent. This one-time tax would serve as a transition to the rules established under this bill. Corporations would be allowed to pay the tax over a period of eight years and would be allowed to use foreign tax credits.\n"
h2Text,"3. Closing loopholes allowing American corporations to artificially inflate or accelerate their foreign tax credits. (Section 4)\n"
pText,"When U.S. corporations earn profits overseas, taxes paid to the foreign country are credited against U.S. tax liabilities, in order to avoid double-taxation. Under current rules and tax planning strategies, corporations are allowed to claim foreign tax credits for taxes paid on foreign income that is not subject to current U.S. tax (i.e. foreign tax credits in excess of what is needed to avoid doubletaxation). As a result, American multinational corporations are able to use such credits to pay less tax on their U.S. taxable income than they would if all income was all from U.S. sources – providing them with a competitive advantage over companies that are entirely domestic.\nUnder the Corporate Tax Dodging Prevention Act, foreign tax credits generated by profits earned in one country could not be used against U.S. income tax on profits earned in another country.\n"
h2Text,"4. Preventing American corporations from claiming to be foreign by using a tax haven post office box as their address. (Section 5)\n"
pText,"Some companies claim to be based in a tax haven like the Cayman Islands even though their presence in these locations consist of nothing more than a post office box and their actual staff is still located in the U.S. Today, a single five-floor office building in the Cayman Islands is claimed as the address for over 18,000 corporations, demonstrating how easy it is for companies to pretend to be based there. Under the Corporate Tax Dodging Prevention Act, a corporation could not claim to be foreign if its management and control operations are located in the U.S.\n"
h2Text,"5. Preventing American corporations from avoiding U.S. taxes by inverting. (Section 7)\n"
pText,"In an inversion, an American corporation acquires or merges with a foreign company (usually much smaller) and then claims that the newly merged company is a foreign one for tax purposes — even though the majority of the ownership is unchanged and little or no personnel or operations have actually moved offshore.\nUnder the Corporate Tax Dodging Prevention Act, the U.S. would continue to tax such a company as an American corporation so long as it is still majority owned by the owners of the American party to the merger or acquisition.\n"
h2Text,"6. Prevent foreign-owned corporations from stripping earnings out of the U.S. by manipulating debt expenses. (Section 6)\n"
pText,"Foreign controlled multinational corporations sometimes load up their U.S. affiliates with excessive debt as a way to shift profits out of the U.S. The foreign-owned U.S. affiliates then make interest payments to foreign companies that result in deductions that reduce or wipe out their U.S. income for tax purposes. Often the loans are made between entities owned by the same parent company, which means they are really an accounting fiction and the only real consequence is a lower U.S. income tax bill.\nUnder my Corporate Tax Dodging Prevention Act, a U.S. affiliate of a foreign-owned multinational corporation would not be allowed to deduct interest expenses that are disproportionate to its share of income of the entire corporate group (the entire group of corporations owned by the same parent company). The U.S. affiliate could choose instead to be subject to a different rule limiting deductions for interest payments to ten percent of its income.\n"
h2Text,"7. Preventing large oil companies from disguising royalty payments to foreign governments as foreign taxes. (Section 3)\n"
pText,"U.S. taxpayers are taxed on their income worldwide, but are entitled to a dollar-for-dollar tax credit for any income taxes paid to a foreign government. U.S. oil and gas companies have been disguising royalty payments to foreign governments as foreign taxes in order to claim foreign tax credits. The Corporate Tax Dodging Prevention Act would close this loophole which amounts to a U.S. subsidy for foreign oil production for the largest oil companies."
legislation_id,l42-2
pText,"Here is a list of the top 12 corporate tax dodgers:\n"
h2Text,"Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E)\n"
pText,"Since 2008, PG&E has received a $1.6 billion refund from the IRS. And this huge utility company doesn’t just dodge taxes. Last year, it was convicted of obstructing a federal investigation into a gas pipeline explosion that killed eight people and destroyed 38 homes. The maximum fine for this felony is $3 million -- a fraction of the $10.8 billion in profits this corporate tax dodger has made over the past eight years. And last year, PG&E rewarded its CEO with $11.1 million in total compensation.\n"
h2Text,"General Electric (GE)\n"
pText,"When it comes to dodging taxes, GE brings good things to life. From 2008 through 2015, while GE made more than $40 billion in profits, it received a tax refund of nearly $1.4 billion. Since 2008, GE has received more than $15.3 billion in tax breaks. Meanwhile, GE has outsourced thousands of jobs overseas, reduced its U.S. workforce by 37 percent since 1999 and shut down more than 50 American factories since 2008. During the financial crisis, GE received a $16 billion bailout from the Federal Reserve while the corporations CEO, Jeffrey Immelt, served as a director of the New York Fed. In 2015, Mr. Immelt received over $33 million in total compensation.\n"
h2Text,"JP Morgan Chase\n"
pText,"In 2013, JP Morgan Chase made a profit of $12.5 billion, but instead of paying federal income taxes it received a $1.4 billion tax refund, thanks in large part to 385 subsidiaries incorporated in offshore tax havens, including 149 in the Cayman Islands. Since 2008, JP Morgan Chase has received more than $22.2 billion in tax breaks. Meanwhile, during the financial crisis, JP Morgan Chase received a $391 billion bailout from the Federal Reserve, while Jamie Dimon, the CEO of this financial institution, served on the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.\n"
h2Text,"International Paper\n"
pText,"Since 2008, International Paper made more than $5 billion in profits, but instead of paying federal income taxes, it received a $386 million tax refund from the IRS. International Paper has a decades-long history of dumping pollution from its mill in Ticonderoga, NY into the air and into Lake Champlain, damaging the surrounding environment and that of the Vermont towns on the other side of the lake. While the company’s environmental record has improved in recent years, it still emits a huge amount of pollution into Vermont with processes that the company claims are necessary to remain profitable. Meanwhile, the CEO of this corporation made more than $16.8 million in total compensation in 2015.\n"
h2Text,"IBM\n"
pText,"In 2015, IBM made nearly $6 billion in profits in the U.S., but not only did IBM pay nothing in federal income taxes that year, it received a $321 million tax refund from the IRS, and $1.35 billion in government contracts. From 2008-2015, IBM avoided $17.8 billion in U.S. taxes while they now have 16 subsidiaries in offshore tax havens. While Big Blue has been working hard to avoid U.S. income taxes, it is in the process of firing thousands of U.S. workers shipping many of these jobs to Asia and Eastern Europe. Meanwhile, IBM’s CEO, Ginni Rometty, received nearly $20 million in total compensation last year including a record-breaking $4.95 million bonus.\n"
h2Text,"CBS\n"
pText,"In 2014, CBS made nearly $1.8 billion in profits, but instead of paying federal income taxes, it received a $235 million refund from the IRS. Meanwhile, Leslie Moonves, the CEO of CBS, made over $56 million in 2015 and has an estimated net worth of more than $700 million.\n"
h2Text,"Boeing\n"
pText,"Since 1994, Boeing has shipped almost 60,000 jobs overseas. In 2014, shortly after forcing U.S. workers to accept an end to the company’s defined benefit pension plan, Boeing’s CEO – who made $23.5 million in compensation that year – callously said that he decided to put off retirement because “The heart will still be beating, the employees will still be cowering, I’ll be working hard.” When it comes to avoiding taxes, no company works harder than Boeing. In 2013, Boeing made nearly $6 billion in profits, but instead of paying federal income taxes, it actually received a tax refund of $199 million from the IRS.\n"
h2Text,"Verizon\n"
pText,"Not only did this telecommunications giant avoid paying federal income taxes on $12.3 billion in U.S. profits in 2013, it received a tax refund of $197 million from the IRS. And Verizon isn’t just good at avoiding U.S. taxes. In 2009, it used a Dutch subsidiary to convert $1 billion of equity into debt to escape paying virtually any taxes in Europe. Since 2008, Verizon has received over $21.1 billion in tax breaks. Meanwhile, Verizon has shipped more than 5,000 jobs to the Philippines, Mexico, the Dominican Republic and other low-wage countries in recent years. Meanwhile, the CEO of Verizon, Lowell McAdam, made $18.2 million in total compensation in 2015, over 200 times more than the average worker.\n"
h2Text,"Priceline.com\n"
pText,"Not only did this online travel company, avoid paying federal income taxes from 2008 to 2015, it received a tax refund from the IRS of $31 million, even though it made a combined profit of $698 million. Not content to avoid federal taxes, Priceline has been sued in several states for not paying state and local hotel taxes on their booking fees. Meanwhile, it paid its CEO, Darren Huston, over $15 million in total compensation in 2015.\n"
h2Text,"Netflix\n"
pText,"In 2015, not only did Netflix avoid paying federal income taxes, it received a $28 million tax refund from the IRS, even though it made more than $97 million in profits. Netflix benefits from tax breaks for executive stock options and the research tax credit, and is also known to make use of tax havens in Luxembourg. Remarkably, the state of Maryland has provided tax credits for the production of the Netflix show House of Cards, despite a report from Maryland’s Department of Legislative Services concluding that those tax credits do not benefit the state at all. Meanwhile, the CEO of Netflix, Reed Hastings received over $16.6 million in total compensation in 2015.\n"
h2Text,"Time Warner\n"
pText,"In 2014, not only did Time Warner pay nothing in federal income taxes, it received a tax refund from the IRS of $26 million, even though it made $4.6 billion in profits. Since 2008, Time Warner has received more than $6.7 billion in tax breaks. Meanwhile, the CEO of Time Warner, Jeffrey Bewkes, received over $31 million in total compensation in 2015.\n"
h2Text,"Exxon Mobil\n"
pText,"Not only did Exxon Mobil pay nothing in federal income taxes in 2015, it received a tax refund of nearly $2 million from the IRS. Meanwhile, Rex Tillerson, the former CEO of Exxon Mobil, received a $180 million severance package from this big oil company before he became President Trump’s Secretary of State."
legislation_id,l43
pText,"Nobody here would deny the importance of fostering and rewarding innovation in medicines, but we have got to find a way to do it that eliminates indefensible pricing barriers that lead to health care rationing, unnecessary suffering and premature death.\nMy bill would eliminate market exclusivity for new drugs and instead offer cash rewards from a \"Medical Innovation Prize Fund\" for new products that improve health outcomes. By eliminating monopolies and allowing generic competition as soon as a new drug enters the market, prices on drugs would fall dramatically, saving taxpayers, employers and consumers more than $200 billion per year, a savings far greater than the $80 billion prize fund that would be financed through public and private insurers savings.\nAn example of how American consumers pay dramatically more under the current system is an HIV/AIDS drug called Atripla. A prescription in the United States costs more than $24,000 per patient per year, yet the U.S. government buys the FDA-approved generic version for programs in developing countries for only $192 per person per year.  Another example is the AIDS antiviral drug Tenofovir. The average retail price in the United States is $908.21 per month. The same drug sells for $5.40 for a month's supply in South Africa.\nUnder my plan, patent holders no longer would be given monopoly rights to control the manufacturing and sale of products. Instead, patents would serve as a claim on eligibility for the cash rewards given for new inventions. Drugs developed without patents also would be eligible for the prizes.\nThe measure effectively would put an end to deceptive marketing practices that exaggerate benefits and understate harmful side effects. It also would reduce waste by drug companies that spend huge sums developing copycat drugs that are of little medical value.\nBy making prescription drugs more affordable, the measure would help reduce the number of Americans who die every year in the United States because they lack health insurance. The number now stands at 45,000, a 2009 Harvard study calculated.\n Today, more than 50 million Americans have no health insurance. Another 29 million are underinsured, often lacking drug coverage. The health reform law Congress passed two years ago will extend coverage to 31 million uninsured Americans but still will leave 23 million with no health insurance.\n"
legislation_id,l47
h2Text,"Thursday, July 19, 2018 - My Resolution to Protect American Democracy from Russian Meddling\n"
bulletList,["Force members of the Senate to go on the record in accepting the assessment of the U.S. intelligence community that Russia interfered in the 2016 presidential election and the looming threat of Russian interference in this year's midterm elections.", "My resolution also calls for the Senate to commit to safeguard the U.S. election system, protect the ongoing investigation of Special Counsel Robert Mueller and demand that President Donald Trump cooperate with the investigation."]
pText,"If President Trump won't confront Putin about interference in our elections and his destabilizing policies, Congress must act. Tweets and speeches are fine, but we need more from Republican senators now. If their leadership won’t allow votes on this extraordinarily important matter, then my Republican colleagues must join with Democrats to make it happen or all of their words are worthless.\nMy resolution states that the U.S. Senate:\n"
bulletList,["Accepts the assessment of the United States intelligence community with regard to interference by the Russian Federation in elections in the United States and in other democracies;", "Must move aggressively to protect our election systems from interference by Russia or any foreign power, and work closely with our democratic partners around the world to do the same;", "Demands that the sanctions against Russia that were passed last year be fully implemented by the president;", "Will not accept any interference with the ongoing investigation of Special Counsel Mueller, such as the offer of preemptive pardons or the firing of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, and that the president must cooperate with this investigation; and", "Declares that the President must cooperate with the investigation of Special Counsel Mueller."]
legislation_id,l48
h2Text,"Clear authority for the Federal Reserve to facilitate an orderly restructuring of Puerto Rico’s debt.\n"
pText,"This section expresses the Sense of the Congress that the Federal Reserve has the authority to provide emergency financing to Puerto Rico to facilitate an orderly restructuring of Puerto Rico’s debt through Section 14(2)(b) and Section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act. In addition, this section expresses the sense of the Congress that the Public Debt auditing committee established under Act 97 of the island government should continue its work, and allow Puerto Rico to set aside debt found unconstitutional as a result of this audit.\n"
h2Text,"Creation of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation of Puerto Rico (Public Corporation).\n"
pText,"This section creates a public restructuring agency with authority to lend to the Puerto Rican territory and municipalities in order to facilitate necessary restructuring of debts. It creates a process for the territory and municipal governments to file for insolvency with this Public Corporation. Upon such a filing, a stay on repayment is imposed, and bonds would be written down to whatever the current owner paid for that bond. The Public Corporation would then purchase the bond for that price, and would reset the par value of the bond to that price. The Public Corporation is authorized to negotiate and make further loans necessary for operations and investments, as well as to make other expenditures. The Public Corporation is also empowered to lift the stay at any point. This section makes clear that the pensions of ordinary investors should be protected, and that Wall Street speculators should not be able to profit from the misfortune of U.S. citizens, including the 3.5 million people in Puerto Rico.\nThe board of the Public Corporation will consist of seven members who must all be full-time residents of Puerto Rico and have expertise in Puerto Rico’s economy, culture and history. Four of the members would be chosen by the legislature in Puerto Rico; two of the members would be appointed by the Governor of Puerto Rico; and one would be appointed by the President of the United States. The Public Corporation would be capitalized from the Exchange Stabilization Fund at the U.S. Treasury Department.\n"
h2Text,"Bankruptcy Protection.\n"
pText,"In 2014, Puerto Rico enacted its own law to allow the island to restructure about $26 billion in debt owed by its public corporations. This section provides that U.S. territories are included under the Chapter 9 Bankruptcy title.\n"
h2Text,"Improving Health Care Access in Puerto Rico.\n"
pText,"This section will ensure Puerto Rico receives payments under Medicare and Medicaid that are at least equal to payments received by all states. For Medicaid, the bill would eliminate both the total funding cap and the federal matching cap (FMAP), align Medicaid reimbursement with Medicare rates for primary care services, as well as apply the 100 percent Federal Poverty Level (FPL) limitation. Currently, Puerto Rico’s income eligibility levels for Medicaid are based on the Puerto Rican poverty level, which is much lower than the FPL.\nFor Medicare, the bill includes a provision that raises Medicare payments for health care providers in Puerto Rico and makes permanent the incentive payments for primary care services. The bill also ensures that Puerto Rican seniors and people with disabilities are automatically enrolled in Medicare Part B – just like beneficiaries in the 50 states and DC – and reduces the Part B late enrollment penalty for current Puerto Rican Medicare beneficiaries.\nThis section directs the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to add Puerto Rico, with special attention to Vieques, to the National Environmental Public Health Tracking Network, which currently studies health, exposure, and environmental hazard information in 26 states. The bill also awards a grant to a Puerto Rican research university and the Puerto Rico Department of Health for a three-year study of environmental and health factors of residents of Vieques.\n"
h2Text,"Modernizing Puerto Rico’s infrastructure.\n"
pText,"This section will appropriate $10.8 billion over the next five years to rebuild Puerto Rico’s crumbling roads and bridges, improve its harbors and airports, upgrade its drinking water and wastewater plants, and fortify flood control projects. It would improve public transportation within cities like San Juan, Ponce, Bayamon, and Carolina, as well as between major cities, and improve the ferry service between Puerto Rico, Vieques and Culebra. It would modernize Puerto Rico’s aging electric grid and expand high-speed broadband networks all across the island. It would prioritize the dredging of Caño Martín Peña, a highly polluted channel filled with debris and silt, and fund affordable housing and community development projects in the area, and across the island. Finally, it would fund clean energy projects and allow the island to move away from importing expensive and polluting fossil fuels. Importantly, this substantial investment in the island’s infrastructure will support nearly 140,000 good-paying new jobs.\n"
h2Text,"Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit Equity for Puerto Rico.\n"
pText,"This section amends the Internal Revenue Code to make citizens of Puerto Rico eligible for the federal earned income tax credit and allow them to claim the refundable portion of the child tax credit on the same basis as U.S. taxpayers.\n"
h2Text,"Self-Determination for Puerto Rico.\n"
pText,"This section would authorize the State Elections Commission of Puerto Rico to hold a vote or series of votes to allow the people of Puerto Rico to decide on admitting Puerto Rico into the United States, allowing Puerto Rico to become an independent country or allowing Puerto Rico to reform the current commonwealth government. This section instructs the U.S. government to respect and honor the will of the people of Puerto Rico. Votes must be held by January 31, 2018 and a transition respecting the outcome of the votes must be put into place by January 31, 2022."